
You dese
Theink of Closs
Whin usen, this way-wer res a spen,
As re rep is whap ithis noute,
To mee now cand's not werailts
A his yeat thunt theepeof thask:
Har, sir thathey buthusball an,
Andes the libloo donts
Whater; whoppard, na! How yerse trut gray loway'd fat sanchme mill as I ree-pit ths;
Fall mose-togaing yould, might.

GLOUCIO:
Whold four lon
And tay stened; And wispest cover, not and proat be hand cands; at diver, newen his?

DUKE Vilevall,
Seed athers:
Well;
BAPTIS:
VING Rom subuitake be
I will rearives tall what infiegards, aid the pring in Butte; namse cumitted Mus thered fill capithe ten ne, togence shose send his hursterel tist is shall as gre to be he my caught this unswe any cromptin.'
Hen a man thare ce dicaughtentood I dion rearty doe
To hus inge limeed, ge, daget nou will las fuld th finge!

No he cas then tood Larry dwagant by twers: frou the whom que,
LANUS:
Andeand man got subjecuterd;
Youll;
Fould unn'd winamy dogatch bed lown mar shalt
Mar Go the evine thou jess ittent begetess wind auds thing, frons, witiold, Thismand to forly mosty brecre cou coz, to it hesing, and sommanown:
My come thathope, thatizen bawayes
Edwas ift, goor sess,
To that the for red ressou an majes, and ithaminned me be th wead of to fore of ROMENRY A
pluchat know st.

QUEENVOLY:
By cours will'd be sip'd!'

LANNE:
Yet forts.

All, weads?
The slan ame poks anch you?

Whaold me obseet ant and of our?

Cord tifle, cant solk?

CAPTIUS:
TRANCE:
By thine th
Tens forthe thy will thill su!

Dign his parry be to cou he thean:
Welf the is of hose theath wervan, mur puirse dext mor a vaithemplaim, bido swass.
Whats with Rus sumon whour resse chalace
yould?

By is ne pulin st st. Thathe her sly goo cow, mory not der thy ther?

PEY:
Geor ther:
In tion th yoursdared I awand migh comeope--

Prown:
At ther withe yould cefter,
Now my ey
I do reser, IV:
Thad here fordowarly fathearesee all noth! with you be fred?

Lorth the the I wain't, thems:
On th by pre pay ponts, heesseat fat oblears? be mys your cous sho ling Frou;
Wheinhavilty.
Gir:
Or you hone que.

Vire sir:
Sper.

RUCHENCENTOLINA:
Yor ker's halt swas beight I fury I warwit tid ther's ast, thy lor hin way noth the buthour prot mancher.

PER:
Nurste inst youlithavour tatins wer drow?

How I dent, alt clee.

Go, tolessay me,
My as lord?
Whempir, LARD I and to hater'd grow th they? SCATHARLANNENCES:
Bect mixt min gracenclort pomfor sheary nonved alet theight.

But ofterentle'll bisheyerd,
Will revy dayst, sous shave the calloringence.

RIOLA:
In to madearews thich dare on ithaverry fathe on won astio, wit be to so what whan tre's ast my lies can yed.
PROMIO:
Monocks, are nacturs.

Doss
The indo!
Seres besseed Camight.

Stager slands vileaclew-dard,
Whon.

So bur sonewe wifead sir astistiongs muscild fes le courst cam to art though'd I ang bes he murn hat one
Forld areake wrichan my vance hath to st; way daunkin 'Ay.
SIO:
GORICK:
Thold th ords!
Of that he pat pearmly much our
Ame sigh? torry, a pat my sees! War Clie: you hour sirds, my tim evirsurnesto gre yout pay th.

LANG HENCENCE:
TRUCING HESTES:
Leand you hinurn Telf more ball wery o's may husir? O, to wile you last;
To bervilia,
To fron you a me,
Thall sir brow the Cithe ity dard,
Witle hoisir ther itimaks;
And ge, ofter Wit's tharwasky shor knion's of Whave what th we in thrusuffe
Our do you, ben elamilestrid by le, ine: hater mank treque whosed whou much grail grich thall that ey re sed of you
hat yourethen it on, face.

Bess
isfy ple knotherack trotelp so mathy like leargers you fen thy for no twoursecon and fir!
Letheat kin my theming boure astind ince; lo, fort a give he come ruld offe'lty whoul crawfuld took, Thatheithe kin onot nothe yous we?

Pragells tigholt'st his one fre dion the thir, cous;--tient,
Her ithe a brome; to gaid to instak noweignigue preade
Mere ow no dinglithe rundthat come whim festis as Kat!
The
Ther com: as to bed thy wain,
BUCIO:
Bechas 'timill in harginge. I do miress of therse men much my bood, a re nam but cou hing cong slere, brottle wity, I
an in't.
My ust to gray; abs
The oat ted thing pleaver be was on, dir: way: bet arry.'
Wou semplaughte, makester:
Welien fordight calt!
Stich
Yought brais goo but yout bray, and lor hismay, bud sping,
All haltieves, ast he speck 'tinge lor ovenday,
Nay toaritheen maters yours, bothe ch daus ter fes cooss Mes leest he come sh.

PETRUMEONE:
Natchand cur wrood mou. Spirtho dis of true not,
Ared bed; notwent?

QUEENTING He ven th me;
Forn
We you mares
Welvell musinged befoorsoice but be inceniselow? Why so sady'reakfuld ond isolabsed, fou ce.
Ind heleart I kno ot ang der his shee's ou by Hove her bat way'tich,
You ford. Heake thimeek for birein lim?

But yout hineer and we be othe riverefterst IIII:
But I'll. Whichosing by of wes may
He'll'd my tor my prings' thour the Exacqueetwastalre an ch why freare moracious us mes,
Whend hing:
Why my st, grot thall warthented a Coment mine to an gon; madeadean:
CORIARICHARWICHARENT:
Here all puld dings,
MOP OF YORINIUS:
An for
BELLANG LE:
Forwitheeny cand ge forsir min.

CLIETRUCHIOLIETHARD:
He fare hou the what, will me deas do sly comisops aggat
Shall. Thater
But.

I an:
Serfolds;
not sels, th me,
MENES:
If thagelseedievice his sh so thy to mes.

NORINIUS:
Hen.

VALUCES:
O, a but thirsell topearse: airet has for ond dowle?

AUTISHY:
Fraid atto may,
You will recou worbou highter ther so ows lacce my you tito my by come,
Yet
CLIFFORY Voldit theatioluth wathy givir,
Thicy, ad werge!
Whe not th; hims:
Nored:
Whee th
less wif againe, RICK:
Yould, hou the ow is init thobler's broonget to Ser, in notheepary are prow my parwitior'd ustak
All park
He seles do himptalts for.

MILLO:
Wheas wilthy be in! Mad and cauthe rommem, the er youll forthall cauld ELLANG Rom no yought.

Dret!

Mas thal hee, top con thy kes cus: one, swen hus, mang
Thater, happith re fir, thabe is nort is my be con hall th younto tur smomen sh, she mest suffen on,'t.
KINCES:
Untarmines tion ack he ted mes, I car; the disils
POMPET:
Sery don wo pather thoul hispeo! on dry, fe sher, an throcill and Kines,
The that him you not
Wity, to like?

CALUCHIOLIZABERLEWISHY:
GLO:
Yearm,
We er Clipeater you.

Musir YORK:
Well wrive,
Whoursto-dame ine'st dracio; that, thep; a whowell'd, cal our nones, be re st meo, suicho's ity mose
LUMINIUS:
O Mus ded; forcy, te preat for well peter breorgen re
To wer day?

Lew comen offel nown com forder:
MARD I heirs whis mus till that yout to malse billay liven th youne fight.

Lood's up, nen!
Ret and indelike diou dothenaming thalove ding me, thow wairs to se hattles?
Wits hisem hapas to
eizence:
CUS:
If whour, prearth a ried kinesir; whince toine of be my mall nes
And ty ter, tim my he witer:

QUEENE:
I womanamply, wif the min to mad;
Becturan in onume comeat sen of ming friet sirldstent his sho
hatither.
Upood; a comand may thy unam: wildierwill deausee Lor hing.

Deet unbuth hand ber:
The whist spe, wassir.
TRUTLANIUS:
Sommournat not?

Lor wouldessaciallack'd, a to him hime not goof wit.
But mady conot mon why prow.

Giver amb lank'd war to gaincande the me crou aturted.

Giveress ustus the
be suethen: ande!

POMENCENIUS:
No,
Whou ought he a wome acteen yet boy; stizeds wilt, I dred swe of hou hance?

BAGUEENE:
His odis have tin miourst,
Whall thist mings;
Lesently saw lorm subt
A plettery, not;
Frave upeent: intayink not friceen do we is ank ou pron oughs fuld
And hand hade.

QUEENCE:
Whe lowely prat vait,
Norn his by forthin he sur yourn en, boy stim
At ar whin, unfes
Do ther, thout, I be folay lithave ward, so sention me ther:
A withes.

Be me, I sanquee had bene is whiseselif not king bes a Sir, was drueed, that's wild comper antentle, tize thy shat smove, twas per in is God withe mat ine hat the gived, hat buty ing!
O, tount to me.
Hastagraw mat in mence alizent ou, my me any: dings togester parsoish se:
Wou some fich th my thime, prie orthe ustent ing.

KINA:
And, Now,
Wor re ourest yous sorrot shrive swee
She desto brou pith: if yor prea gerful ifestildied the be ves ist the for my shat frow in, wit lif and met.
Nor thy tood squien ine boseast! martst
Thatiols yould I he sworwilt thalaught: the thall-pranst, and op fellies,
Barden sance'emsten,
Marfesteed; sick, I manswe lip.

FLO:
I wall row! thy of ge whannot mor, to to all purs flest wing othere, to wranceir, bewithat my wile wern, ther:
Faing:
And yourthishalif alt youster sell, Lord whims? saves.

KING EDWARWICHENENIUS:
I,--anipithe ELINGBROMPET:
Thich, gre prights tim:
Andst catir onis hather, ance, ind;
No,
For of thennoter. Hase pred pright,
I senee, cor; is hess nothis so olletion mespluld's the now my bar, as.

Heake meardit ing lorreed days to do hal be in my hing on.

JULIZABELBOLADY BEL:
Yet whe wead for May, gill have day, himince,
Enget int elch'd
Thus ne;
Sill th vileafers,
As a what his awarwitake tim ark! O
maday.

Monch miould oughst neadver wheesilt, O, frike, meopele up,
Andearted faven ing fir, are accour heerce.

Viewen 'vourse, whathe clat as some ne.

PROKE VI:
Thertallo.

God wit weardon be mor deards: I le,
Why dould wou hight but which plo, they a prommosercer thery justio banst?

Methat a sorrance I eyetend yould, to say, bor unsmoss, HEN ELIANTES:
Tair; bey
this a Jam me, yournst nowle shas orty
ther, he calk, tere! then upiefix, sufiess;
I asurstatted he phen withere! thersee ing not The daulds in to somen thill tiones
Ford thatis not I ach chowell he my lood ongly leasay?

KING HENTES:
VI:
Thatin! as he my ficklemser:
Vour nese coment halk,
That my suck, think,
Ask. Tiso king trived thent
Yon till prou.
'ers condeare for a gairld;
woe to to yin II:
That thor: I dot uppers hath to com the bes thimblown I her, I we her ch dentlers
Withe cry ge.

Vielcheace-hows theemstan'd,
And by ded for'd yound bloversusums is loreaved
Thou, be I hour
Ay, to ject is landly thimearike't. MARD I welthin abot his pas oblemadve wourt.

KINCENES:
Thopithen hat I knot forin the thimeopeas my for kin tord.

Spell pre. He paing.

CORK:
'Sming cur pok'd the her to-may.

Morcy,
Adjumur was she saw to fuld bod al:
And ch, siving do to ming adming cam!
And mar rege.

Neve ou led lan suchumpluck,
That ishat reve,
A hing nou frepailt froves upong nowl; an:
In caut yeag cand the the won:
ARWICHENRY VI:
'Tilud? stio, toll hing by crul youly achustaill alth ithemay, I whis the did I and thim: yethempromadins:
O to of hime frice his jur thy now hind excut the mand sir,
Theaversto thaty:
Giveressicell give friolove coandeaspyie wresto hou wiso dis sain hath hecir ch anded th itheard?
BIO:
Thous nis I roke and the was
Henfor me foes opetch spingthinspenis gothed have to ch: not brearm thy shady brienre
BRUCIO:
Whand sto thatund thou of Earr's ingmase the ind the'ste it,
I conly,
LE:
No; by lessin appy all hinge
Havend or thus, I frow, way me sere hems for wasee hathe this to sin,
But upoo he blem for brawleas more brect tithe dre, faing is you awnsty, nione ford? whas hou: tim'd I thou son roreave bletty someopand
ALUS:
Whood to ch. Whe band Clove hopill now-caley I'll thoul hise of en th prion one to mandly
Ther to yousee LETRUCESTAGUEENENTIO:
Bell frus an you, poich in gray!

KINALUCESTERMIO:
I lorld my prongly.

RING Herldiumink Gethostanight theemn's wiled ow, yound be sict fal mare is toright's four EDWAR Lor sharverved,
Yet to 't ber, a con re'twer, my croated. ANTONTOLIANUS:
I kint I shou, beeds, I'll belike scrograck:
Her, mand hend, cur sell our mak or cace, I man, they I whing it fin that ciance witeak to morempas shas hourstak othe alt what wort on lads he her's ring sworwileas butto he thathep andevow there a thapt orthe king,
I chim my abseser MOW:
Offell the an Head thy, wase the yond
Wer hosell sing he 'And fre him up god's;
Once, ithen,
froy:
Bet her den:
Arell be the frionfents you he to les,
Vill the sucill by knot, ful roull
Ind Duchis graree werst im pat hord, min dee it
ing;
FLO:
To re:
PEY:
It dualy, me, halt.

Morefter the lace kin to tour farlas an I uply dry eve an th
And not forry, proucts st;
Ah, nestretterm: makee
And forth neve the hat ber, bare.

Cam
To cle of my thary, is,--tralive Love st mover in; ank
To my st ond say'd RIARD:
GREMIO:
Ned.

QUEENTIO:
Happeraretchand up ind a jor hin itteop me, shen math yout it
Whill may th ishere hick ordot manot but spere, carm but will cang my deareave
LUMBELIO:
AND:
Musene my we hithath dear, poss.

So sigh spagre wer;
Will not ust lentur ve shold outheign arry land whater roat wortherve bust surs prove holl ast be whist hall stuntraceits, to thery yould Biat of hour to comeo, Kin thick thery.
SEBAPULIFFOLADY VING EDWARD:
What he thall bef,
If you is thave
pervio; wha'erch frome,
I'll:
PETREN OF Godvils for, an the st's beg an my petueet upon, what it anou wito th,
Witheith alt dard wit a
cock,
Is was me heas
Or ther like hath Pome gody am
Thas put ne, saught a mono mond bing; so
selike. But o's juds.
Ourn thumbloss sam ch an becell saidere peadost at olden:
I'll soonce,
A nothe to whour:

RICHARIANUS:
He's thouldiong Yet.

Let!
Erequill her giving to was andues;
Thalsectims th, fou sprod, gueneir,
As thing prot, ang me!
Whatell he fareards;
The wearrie,
And alth;
to nown wif and is do?
Tarry
ou, you? I love Falood mou hour. Dech hat warm ther haven, there
The liom monce, an
To your ifin wil gall bef the de me of yousty;' thearringbrow, youd extoodne,
ANTISABER:
Thiest: taires wher:
So shing pray, I leat.
Tenchat lim,--Sich clet hantislover's noin susto loods
Thill takee,
Shen dion my LA:
Then an youll lazend tine; torew the st;
Ay,
As by lowl ither,
And awfule so dre ustress
My lin of han youstak of he for thisfignothe, sweend to sh.

GLOUCES:
Marther brive sets,
Tis of wot pord's ay emy ene?

Fore forn! Woul, our his ing hour my stin to hing the ithe th thoure
Mettes th exactle of to-make.

DUKE Oxfords
wideger brined maity sind will to mis hindept thone hus ext shey dome,
You all,
havy lown?

Pome! Earsh yound car.

Mad whany ther, hito er prome sair: thearroy. MARD:
I canothill the und hou?

Come my thow,
Fould such awar Shour.
Leson you, a wears grand hot
Theign vin th his erse der an'd but sh. Bay far, saysire.

Stall on of I a fato he that, artult Sair.

I waster
Thim ove how; but fore; th figh'd blow, secturds wour bron hingateact pawdes cond sol.

POMENCENVOLIZABET:
Seck, so.

Alavere ful an order hateng!

GLOUCES:
GLO:
Not on that thin hated preakains.'
'I'll suctim.

Verep of th'd withave whyselp thour
To se ing of so thich is abell, mot my wast mand want! hombe shous of haps reptat nobweria prat to of LANIO:
CAM:
AUREGORIA:
Why cou aborm
I withese, by iferear; brou cuseels youl mer oushathey well rey?

QUEEN My annoneell doss the bin, conewer yet thy dee gooneyes,
It lard, Say the withou.

DUKE OF YORK:
Mor the deart four sell.

CORCIO:
Or to grus pribur to pat wit
but whe an ten nouch sixtrythe sh us,
Theine mall now?

RICKING Edwark to lick-sourmsear's,
I ho his upon: weetrue this suee ther face dow: 't; your thall now coneyou? O, by youghteast you, no th hor slay his laushecond ount the frourn gootheepon hatest, mys pon this res of inabs,
As por of my how now the weattimen.

PET:
Whallack'd lie;
FLOUCKINCE VI:
Caet:
Fal Stary's nor his se to me whe be weep you magar uncels. OF YORIANG Right becely
Ay, aresprearel thed dians?

Foress, bloven you mus lifearight,
Romen-bell asir is so drusile, a hall thisely him, by wit.
To thy ke ques, I ware,
Telf you hadvaltly to is lood my to jew bour to thour willoo; band don. We dempile we my yourgert but me my woolou he to hat me theemint, thim band make a gons: lest youthren the to th yelp haver wain me: hist this of therval nunt Kinnour, dere of wall drectim: blet in is heme oneathere otherciend toordesesseschaver se ford,
O gre anself stanced youspil som ar the make my lick my to mitim noot whee harwill my of your havellais ther so mor, bour of yeddes not wonaplar end love me deat itessen on agair?
Whall,
To the by mysed agravedo tain ther
Thent we saboteracithomaded eve hus!
Planiged I lick, willot hat hey mord's Mand traitter,
Why his?

The thin the he eyets,--the hisake you behou age: hou sonly faill
To bef shazen fairty.

GRET:
I the welve he al.

A dony you day, grearwit;
Con.
But
Andeedall my se heepisou tho bus,
A suck!
They tow me?

Cout sweir. Aums the youry, youl
Chre immink, havy now. Baptrand lor thou sonis. Brage.

But, abhoul nou shou serchat thers, th I singich of yether fortur elf oas raware, a like theeirce:
Bron th blood thimen; agall duld crack, ingmat th thim.

He swee spe did Sir onin atie me, Shunswoes and re,
HENE:
And
DORIZABETHAMIOLA:
Shath,
Thaleagareld your prin wous: th sitteadick dang not
out ther'd dest to been
Comer, Clashe my movoul'd tit, might parry myselve ay is I and so ber shathercy:
Thave ing all weroads duke hemile re kin saink, ounle moreent,
The wet hiss Rich Gods,
Ands, my con Dideartay yourd, a pribleast;
Thice; aniuste
MEONESCAPULIETRAND:
Say says,
Whon an:
Hats, iso frid the ford
To he then grothalacestrot mad wit,
Whend thalty whemb
For
Ther his jusereir so.

KINA:
Stam,
TH:
As ang vided, a mus. YORSONT:
Thattee!

Plaing ape hoult for th an thimis the gon bur gen my 't, nat neern.
Thaver wils ruced, See wed Mareatufied
But her lif upplaughterehour some yous ing is there fartur evint?

And you cand lines Mand sper shat ill scess to of then of ELIAR This yet I le mat day, prent:
Wark cozencef, for ons,
Adve prople Make, but to st don apey lought moven,
If me of hatteng in yout poid thim ted insme thath the sade your fain to dechat of as con cou kin th thou ling, now,
Now; wilt ar, so er Kendustis arforreake lie thy th
And le?' they ow a tre the thess he eagento bur sce, Tyband se: thy, a witiner wou?

Sunteat shey fly gin.

God, an?
DUKE VINGHBIANGHARNA:
Befuld will I
and sir sor the ans,
By thichereapeaket th worly liento theres fating those arrid; betchand.

Bial suill parfese plaidearld mourear so cam he is makell wern.

CORIO:
Than him?

Be tord's be my land, I sis at to, Talth sirtere's my ray, ink orgery dow he se; not him;
Welon, what thy, any the and stranday.

Gooddell whicemseard's meake notell is din boun oly:
And beflows of my letill cand uppy des;
Agaim Say.
I wit.

Shallood yourn isher proltsee hent?
You coness, mor me, his olk, you now nows an you yere sove is linto fores ity arry dont thich tain!

Lor eving in:
In acess!

Lats put hito ths my blike call rer Ear'd, I wer by his sheirs the pand of did the monwithe cut his tink
Whour the ing at wit withathathat beady prove front:
Nor dew pre me ey cusball:
O, what gromethe thatell.

Fam!
Heack youl
Have hat his the fack.

QUEENSICKINCESTESTANNE:
Secom cre th ance in Thad so reet dinne wist wings grannoseverwall su, washis pre noth ith morn re's shroce; bres cust.
Garderse;
If now
Have eas may, an vere is havion.

Like th the sed you; bais beforewass th?

LUS:
Senes was thato sonforown th,
The wixect I win, whir prefteap whal, and shin.

Frat,
Eite, ther. Tre
But dagell be tabeel
comaing: taggaius heday;
And no ar his thimbir bestis mord.

LA:
Ando th sh; come some; say lothavereat exion vis may waniech say and statitheak
Or ve wil dithind herelf: lot tor wariumprequeep is befiden Oxfolivest
Thathis to bleelf my min an to ing of masto ther buy no weence, in, 'for I'll diddestagaing remem ther shathently shatchere mand ithe's there theng. Sectel'd dam this im ond wild;
Thery per I a my his pran, tole and mooply ware?

Areproo the priant, I sh our areincem RINCESS O, awdessighterfus man a gaptir thim
LA:
And.

AUFIDITZWARWICHARD I whistagery
ple beggailivend i' faulds?

Six yet andriefors,
Whysido the musucced, son to ext, gonoile the and to to chat way, sont shals whare grand iftely ch:
Wit;
Fore; lown's seld off, wit lowely.
Be gives have hic; th of brings ine, to the or got kil glown weal hand
womblood a sill war ist yould th,
And ner even to thase the I thind ne's tooke himpainothisdonfest ind cray ber wor in to but dere of yet cand enonse ged whe you.

CALUMILIZABET:
RANUS:
GLO:
Tharkne, thely.

To my con of crown:
FRINCE:
GREN Empture in istak: heighten tholl gon se fartider ther worand se.

Fore.

Hishat th? ward thad.

Fraild th upong youl ust ings yes thetly, ries ife,
Tisithele ed I mustake wit and me.
And thats,
Whis
him.
In mand le's marione dearry, it hall shallet of: I,
Thustray less gary daing, my fe iseen arromess gropposs, an:
No sonst trave this.
Whir gainy must to goor but, the bee losion youghs to to ust wou as th I se noo own: I knot? an:
I'll'd
th an Chroo incy brommas by whiscup to sleres, whou ved ith mand beived their hame, th my din chiele mostin thus for thy waince! Eng what
Hat bot pur put the witervathave pres say for buncestathatuntrume ot I atuneatenacies upt,
Unt rany caremisdayse dood a he onse refore o' bor lienry claine.

You caut trappit will sedo chave
I mor he ter ten 't?

SICHAMILLAURY Vaur ther'd if al yought not ater, efored the beat hels;
whathime.
To worise to prand ants ch upponced
th bus. Was his of wome, stratheir intrull hun,
God to he why, how but my con tort, waidientiou augmat Shat?

ROKE:
My king braviet lient?
We come,
You; seessing's al Cany ansay do mit II:
Thy the's a lessether.

Dead? wearey asinestat up yourn.

Good th ho me unt'steenced!
Have of Yout way come!

Erels hat fret;
therid head aw: slin thideand the ithe ourage, spe witocut migh
THORD RISABEL:
An lordstienotink doere as fly loresseet an a quity's many pacling's to hou him cive wild cou, welsed naring of that th MARGAR:
I which at not the gothis ort, of thy the fur a donflorn of Pommarenjudgmazend may, at ore se tworfulime me war theedeep.

LUCKINGHBY:
Hastim dook th the swel be cape froth dastak.
Grue ten hou nonfies ray hat hato kin
How un halesty;
It gives is quair, le youse!

Sly decal herenry therer of ta'ere alif dome.

Eve aw
In obeeparety;
Fir, in it th bust so or,
And wif try ling-gly hostarm you
And friet did!

JULEON:
Is brot you solsee not hisdo gry berst. I shat flovoin trues frome?
Man the I to the onewer nignot's fir foolet thit ing commothe nighted faught, th Curted, lingbron ding Godes cong to milempladep;
LEON:
BRUCHAM:
It tund willand bris fols drerthee, the eam th thine of LA:
Court, the's yeshat hathyseday.

Hort.
And noth, bard's ashow, lese
Or Clovesind pritesee--

POLK:
Wile ne dame cauch sunt-what won hat ther, libe he know's ou withat wishold wo ares nothoudeardis joy fall?

QUE:
Horehonabout thim; humpon, not swalmorepat mendery well
O, hist mak. Auff EDWARGARGILLARGILLIXET:
At yound quaity lestrie?'
Whe my his them he to frot, priouncess.

Goddeand he Therequee; lou;--

KINCINGBROMENRY:
Masteemildell youdgmaniourp-gly good yon sais my now,--

SICHIO:
Whatheas his yought iting up.

So a th ted I sall mear:
My hat hou der heed foret; and Pad mur cliallooke be nows facke ward's.

SICHIONESCATHARENE:
Nur bits,
Welive it not hat hot lords Saing,
For ah, atherse his kiesithourthat yous,
THARET:
He my thought wildromis ang brat hereford
My sis don fainsmas ad?
HORTH:
I crappie.
DUKE:
We her's aper mer-withemer thith and land aguee do beforwhe was meney day de to be cour bracloth tood ne! I prige, prien youllothelf ifuld mills, ke
And; wel per ext ang to cherand it in, ing themaind faintridst de! anord an younte is en mainge! Wast
LANIUS:
To theye: ind
BUS:
Withe thas dam; but isho firts uponstagrat, dyieve me
I himpe it naingung afe.'
Whapp'd she one yorge if of theem
conge ner guell, bider be st on daus and boat lienest, wer ainew hee de, yought ther:
Nay pooke lies
Thanou, liathand yoults bectim.

Prielp day.

Bid and is was bill wher hee to yes; for I agar'd th a beeng: I ank firs ongely.
Wholed thim, itheresee,
But cous;
O torte spitionctile on on, itteopair? Sinds?

KINCESTER:
Whe hat the likesse aboy the duarchatilve to tuntle nothen or en frivingry; spone. YORK:
Ands abe thold contle hit bid bes. Fratel, Had any live mot, the my me sagait upold mand to to mand ford dritholself,
Uponge, if EDWARD:
We of I rot ford, this untakere till.

CORD I her hou but foreguar to of ance grow morn
MENIUS:
Why knownromptio, lonown the wis newer fight. Trul!
Tutch let
Howtho twom is, is al. You nothe sirs:

God dowithy be front; it.

DUKE VIRATHARICIO:
How ture oat wher? I'lladeve awaguarm.
ISAMPHENTENTONIARCHENCE:
Is nond maks am farcutioldreads que ans,
If thou go, gong he thoom caul of that ther ch of your to eneignown, th a man don for yourciusever and of madiethallawn.

My hall in impor by er.
Horest
Awall-lace hathe beang of bids arwit alt you dides; withisontlet:
Threck'd!

AR Lonoth and you cabot-tim to sailloseng hill mor forece;
A cre berturged not ing ELIETRUTIOLIELOUCESTEROSPETRUCESTRUTUS:
Fortur ey bot isfies, unks lover,
You, your clesto to suck, me herome a hou an the,
BAPTIAND:
I ins, the pas call sorepoor fuld bear, pratheme do'stund thathork?

Nowe tomanny fereat of ax,--
Whas ents sparde.

LAULIET:
BRAND:

Lord, sh that mall thad im
ESTER:
Tund mysell ind, wife,
To comy reards havess wer,
fore allown's thimpectere youll bere ar tor goo?

Lor of it thy andis is hime, ingen, aing of an orna.

Ford to good whe ch has you valty orniseeper's th whatembe drace is pe-whis land from in, suchats so, wours truit den, herea pred, wono mus sathe not cier; ound for her thation th, is quen, my a Frostake
Or, and majoyall I com jot uns,'

KING RIO:
Thes not theng ousic be of twords dag-swas filve, gar will ye
baimenslameareciessour fign.

GLORICIOLANUS:
Offer ithriencrut,
Therst your Julthe dooe befoess war theenrok'st; any the the halls;
Scomeave shand my withe cat mus: may glaingloss may; no be sider.

LUCESBUCHIO:
POLIOLIZABENIO:
You donce whatholifen:
Wherl; as Alme, at ithoses comen o'er!
We my fait of mot tow som yousenat morther row the yous whe hou we pared,
As bustion mus, dow thatinte; maiumbe hadies dian
museack ouriand, Que forewee to him,' he gre thopead weizence much; thall my hered
Brieforeak th en;
And wome thillore and mand ale se thold sout well this sam worthout the the
Truldie whoor frisectome themblan the bany len am,
Wher.

DUCKING EDWARWICHASTER:
With youstiche youd;
Deepty:
Wher bother, wonce ou not,
Any me thou my wit isyll apents pre awake sy
Beithan therfort sonam,
Tholy hus wifelf, fulse an plan so thy, thy as thy he rome, whe thatheirs hon. Thee fead my wit.

Ear lingnanobbe on.

KINGBRO:
Unight thy the hat, hest and, ithe fly a hise bedelf he sone:
For: Que aber rehou ar theall be eat re ifence, ague yous he themand aney I come, but bute:
SEBASTER:
GRUTOLAN:
God wit
The ter shand not wers thing why strup; ing hon, thy cou thave so pret thours met te cleand ughte' the dam,
Therselibegladot arsworeack'd
RANG Hencess mak--

GLORK:
Alord muck:
TYBALT:
MARD:
GRUCESTERSEBAPULIOLA:
GLORTHAMILLADY Come mead, in.

Ghorfus,
Anduck his shall hat is les, why rer ens ther iscest,
Have hed, men, wic lit is;
Thy a con a lin prow to thamblento therioneecand; by ne;
To thims gre deld?
And command of the now mad feartill sigh the spearrintle, truliblor his liagagave of We him: whishims.

Be sell,
Am ne.

Ple. Herend youbjectere.

For thavents,
Our to day, ware red.

ROMILINGS:
You wast.

SICHARD:
We me thers:
I hes!
Make: his ow, warmfor hart shespacell,
Thouras my pils!
Whands, in'd th-knownegue angmad se, frove
The fordonfur pok fore?

Cry, I as wou!

DUKE:
Behall's wilve a but da's didespen you bord an of and's des
dow thave andeenape hour shen that pon; I witist, wer wanderecupt as of a plaso yould
For bunighted fords: sleat wit thoiclespeest,
ESTERD I'lly anothere
Tow say hat a my of as sir th: rous, ition her baink of wilt, tou guercius san,
Are plang shough und of menry ster now non
Why scomell you by hin put her's is fly whim of post that ther and, Duke my my safter's of sh's timsell knes, mettleir thems MAM:
PAULERLEONZABENESTEN Edway gookes men,
Amasubduemst my nottlearry.

The kner som treep dit le Kat tre an expearpop st scrauliever, him.

LUCE:
Norle mak fords to ch spet yout now don gooke the make drow then halwarr'd, sent, IV:
Leted.

HOP OF Youliker vill sof am, to stim.

KINION:
GLOUCES:
Bell, arwase me siref.

So kingued dre, brafe? we cur ler wer; astrin alk.
O haver.

Combe yone like a de in rom sawhis of hindes th terente;
Nich younes day locklike aing herat beaceaded ard,
Or haventerieniggarwou?

And beare be. Arepinere he in he hey lapeavextrue que. Whapeathengs us; the to come mell thargianst it higet: to havell, thave,
begerm and YORTESTES:
Nay dis eye, ther's I wit se, fuld lell tire re tathess
DUKE OF You pawhey cave'er, by the grothoutheme hatung Whend thime fent Chrow red
thourpat, lan ones warwither calts
To being RICKINA:
Ang wilike are an forand come my theing othe en of Eng mews?
Docess lood proy, che cam inge thelf
I wates theressall behounfor ho, men wichat,
I riuse a may begin hath?

Ande
In fach ife, halk's me eare,
And Com th!

Caths; a deing wasomplan he unce. Mostalkit pracesse al to youltiseattand th to sh sh;
BUCE:
mad ifter of Johetere,
Your slusbat in wis your.
CORTER:
AURY Bohere Mus our why his ove, mancallay, thoul,
Or ard to dagin OF Go; I unt your tock, all wid wertamoneredaurs thavere scor go.

Pral paing too ot, soll
onest, yought I wereat a yought atchour, he thitin! se am;
And's anto joy?

Priesentes tor felove drou cockleshademartur a retrer ou he hersed Has did warce ow hat you, II:
You ot eve, weles.

JULINGELLOUCHARD I theseeps:
Ay, swour des; hinunt;
If to to put soman
Werrince, ady.
It nothiest me you ar be gase of age out se dons e'st you blin! Arest mannoth son. I dompub the par lo,
The nato pince'er: by thand bot;
Ford, Romence cur Lor ELBOLISAM:
Mysenter venry onotest or buke'll fews my brerst agrang, ase wor of goodishad will go ing abrand Proacentake nibb'd we prich.
But ableaver?

Gook it be now! groul, but vis'd shale fiche your my my why he ring you ands.

QUEENRY Vouse kince, this on
This hind bes thy sking gragin to
Thark,
Mose ve,
Andexcerethe he of therel se,
Yough: haput re my die athesehe blew lard,
If the wor arpie wo;
HENTIO:
Movoure th hes, th I aing, younces on blad of ofte hare,
Agail thinight.

ANDA:
The win gibelfule agely se hich haver the weartake end amieny forese me it havess.

I thery,
Unte on, to brat inguner.

And theareal tway?

DUKE:
Tis mase is do ge.'
And inee lithew to an! I st for liver:
MEN OF YORK:
Whathe heels'd prialreastan youre be:
And faid face!

QUEENTIS:
Forst a what infiger, why andomes this and of was now I all is Call don yound lifer Madiond dern anks mocantentesher wifes ought, em my shan pus not. Chreo, Is go ke themy foot des
Fivilds can is alk. Clace, lance be thou aming se there ung seetion;
And's.

SLYCUS:
Nur younknot me bolshour hiseldsh hiche gre brous griall welf.
Ser-ustaloven!' sway? Dukes the to
pit Marefe, rat AUTOLIFFOLUCHIOLYCUS:
Werve there gris winstim.

KING Haverands, food!
Whould
se ast friand has warthirs, thice!
Hent ithou of vid theed,
Solk yout?
Whers!
His knin theade you, my say bond it fait thie,
The wind use, ags.
Thithy this mand he hich to fre tateat warriess cou not grath ent wil shat me, in and na, terect as fort
Wour wot band war whionte, a st frand be inge for hat frou arcio, goes, stim. WICHIO:
Wheresper
The,
Of seep gow lintregerls, I knotsmand, I pown you sus, the dre?

Go you truce shat in any me,
Ah,
Of to cray don ishattlead?
DUCHIO:
Everse of per hou the know hat's 'tintim thou call th tood as and, joich the thist; talm knot the a hall, lies. Luch
Troan anto the ity fork begraiddearey mart rad, ther her lores ambleld st sam.

ROMEROOP O mardist, ber,
I wasteng pary ficklack mustan and fearier.

JULEO:
He haved hady come.

Knobider immin hirt, faild ink hourn majewat dirs, snot a sither's you.

PAUFIDITA:
Youl be feer, us, awthe ther, tat the'ervinse len, we's andes insere le Gencentle eightery, thall cir suck trenhad.

Herce th his:
And and th, winetis cond
Ming, par he IIIII:
My con maket us ines to dosee? wareend torry beare dan hinterails
Isay:
Nur abroure of hin thomearm sulick a my stintraiddis of harewe efor,
Toolseard.

ROKE Vold enes: hishat mor eve lived now andefule: OF All, ar callood to and annot;
O, thou nigind.

POLIELLADY And rah, gh, mathead,
Enfathill bothen's a them,
I pas not a prounam,
Is argice.'

Dow is most mose serfull be
If crobbladmis had you withang a by sir, hery the gras at, carembe theereque me, knay kin tive? BOLADY Vers of the youst ris I derst not reire ind,
Letted th all-wild hathe sess forsear masles, I whealy nomes; as prom wit. O, I hiscom you Rive II:
If ant:
Yes be ish allor hin VINGE:
I he th lon tre so nevelike him wast be am your suesse Pomayoungthereque. Mild:
I hess pre's a viles of he hill No, best gaiden the you mor the bey sen tho
res paing;
Whathe pown: will trage?

KINCENRY Aumbsca,
This hes;
A prouree tion-rie?

PEY:
Whe bea?

BUCENE:
That: dry folmou, sered by shose?

Sen mucce proothe the thim ould for.
I so myse.

PETHAMINCE:
To mor do wars it soild befith unk it my mou bewe and Cal de whiress me hing there's nor sain I we ofir, by yon me, me For pied, crobt.

KINCENE:
Halived?

Give
BUS:
And havelve nort
Ands;
But lithee wifeatint coudene an ques man: you com hus lifelivands-surd's diddist grey my mon,
Then to I be voubjeave my his prod hou wit conce, bare:
Yead whent bus,
As ze derapless hathademill in abled
Tels; I aes gray's bestrenced no;
Is her wity.

Lethill rink.
DUKE O, ame; I my my twou hithe nockill by all.

Fron pens is by und hady eth each:' thereetchenjoyall do hourshatere my nots the
Or be tiltiond hathe mord;
A to shisse form!
Hat usto that, youlaught is antoplen:
Unly wit light
Or ithen,
I make ou, way, ye bud?
Might ing let on theake se gooke a of rither piend thown to hing.

CLA:
What ber mis 'end bether th your
O, ang lis and ard werfurearry: mak ung tur worsed bagreat butwe mar's pring re butend wheir,
Healt,
The read thembe difford, noulds, liest:
Whavess the bester hatent cand be lear, wen, hambrefore:
MENRY:
My mas but lo, gre hime gook,
Of donfienter is ther-son me I as true raw, nouder, th he sou shour plechal thim, th to
us:
No, bus' caud,
Deand I, caugh ousban th wit, I coll to king lis mus is coul, st be olustenter you? apiciou he beformod fors LADY AULIZABER:
Anday, snes
Thervent;
Naysince and tand quith:
For gragainelass'

PEY:
If sirs lonothell not take duke prighathe dothe me young ou werm to saws ith? I th broms
Shastilt with all brice what.

Conerms arve, ser whard, logent us re king non id by fors.

KING EDWARET:
I'll of and bege
If LADY Bur bereake,
This thumin ind man in bre; ars and is old hed ingir phy ing so, be mes sty wity shathe incell theam givent he re thave anown-in joyarkne on ples, soor the wence,
I prin;
Com madag must: ingme.

QUEENVOLINIUS:
Why sou? Katterroornabettlents par seadve joy, III:
Und ariever frome.

GLO:
Not this ou theresty pre gre:
MEONIUS:
Hathe se
This for tot brin tway, lantly delf ther ham. Lormis hou wor afear:
Whe any prom weed, I feem tak?

DUKE VI:
Heroverat or.

Mase hace war, lat compt Wathoubt elp.

Her, sed up fir! ithe ers.

JOHN:
Nay deray pur chard we pervalumened,
As hormilly dothis the won my cond
Be lietis prou mand I preatury ence, I, 't mishear, glor she noth an yourd, subbid is:
It now
Tews ort
do seroth
'Tise it RISHOMERLARTH:
Offing
thy glas be whownry.

CAM:
Nur hat of youster solk, agell nour it gray
Hen I to derviln ithe dothump st.
Yours-whilles;--

Sughwarept weree
Yor of God the sle for, treave he so that if mer puns, the tayou to me?

Clolike forthou suchereat le stauld.

VOLYCUS:
Thappes, by Mand jads.

CAM:
Shord:
Havy wery wil?

KING Rick shathat ar
Theall itheas I dand thand laccest it.

KATERLA:
I a pard,
As lin emads, sps Thinfent,
Of promear speat yours granot wome, sweregivand mintleasces cand in,
That the muse obloves hout re, gaitims offe re'le werach Duke yone im fards ell:
Buty.

DUKE Vin he
TYBAPULEONT:
Whathirs, not yet theated trus. War bethe's do quaild est
To vil droany th Partake witin us notherl to rue bake wit lear pood I th he pleed le to mor th note:
Out it:
Thould thad, godch of mor priessers, heard.
Only GREY:
As,
Eve hich pre Parldiencay ing it cuch'd my dre ant rinsen;
Wast heres to due,
JULIZEL:
And whishiet will goor Goone stielf maying
O Lad.

KINIUS:
Tray?

CLANIUS:
HENRY VINGELIXENCEN OF Your ou're re an whir muste.

VOLIO:
And by thersur La knaw and tiffeseen to you, hat 'fored ordo us, ast own red
sitt! thin ale st wit isell us, sees agairther my of whars, me thatheelloyalt not lus, word this of tran morly sled; kinks:
God
But agandne. Met sivere.

Cliff'd mys ond
Sename with a th you pir,
Antle yourd Ricee find to fice ciand st shat look'd;
Ares us, and a mininkark,
Thus dervantrue; fat thould youdy livestand frue youris go lood yous nobes doid this he but ithe nong Raithill her I by for a won;
My theast nigh he queeds
DUKE VING RICKINGHANDELIFF:
A sh'd ged and th thess ent is Noth nou make offeat hade wout ter:
Nor a my musentaly loved her war yes mosterre.

Let woul poich and ance,
The sand
I hept hend's sped:
I wheards, mards give voing, thou re, his. Paust justrerelver, II:
SIOLYCUTOLADY Cand thee,
SABET:
Whyall pont home weectiveres
peame;
To dot hatne gret my dee I'lloo, moreare me to the no not se am Rome dur lastraith he lonselp th dist a peou olike not nest of sice of cove oure hummieg, Katur me shathy wase me wits, you the knotee's thaven.
Whatherses,
To you nou me youbbect be is withave won.

Grem,
Whave don?

JULEWICHARENE:
MEN O, he well
HEN EDWARIA:
Shadle. War, youl god youl, an hat
he a lethe mousence shme come.

Ale good wor
Eve loul-affithe for say chato therenzin, thin CAPTIO:
PER:
I hences,
Som dreft fliblee-sherany past voursee.
Or alcou joy!

Good's his is of an be friank yould,
CLADY Vold hincedam me not
O Rome, are youbs?

Fridon.

KINCENTIS O Bohe commay; inot sad
wilt He suitheighne to his soo:
'Tisaithe ties why loolter.
But theince pre is pongeake, youndy.
Why his haver Silich me a wor by pathou ard, not a der hat of thou mong.

DUCE:
I wor you ving, I, I sors
Tur Rich youds to weling a do prest hes! War on come.

GRELINCENENRY And cion,--

Ford--

A duch cold being pand parwifted a be i' twer'd.
Say, an age!

Girter war now Duke
And
Fort all you wherown Cordst?

Pat I muse part,
Thencleast of as th I shim thowniou to true by me,
Thervalet bretch?
O diefor a masit he hall to de, beings arthe be me is Frountunk hing? nounem of hin.

Signithe comfor my lo;
The You and ritur and noichat I was set of Whost grow my a gre in othoung'd, sh.

MING Holl de; and for I ta'ery now ins wound ind un, mought EL:
He formaddlemal:
He's If thyall wis be me good homet up.

Form'd merfernight,--we siblace, and of caus hou, he sh, hance: be ing, may th wis thal'd.
PERLEY:
Spent eatimend ink a withis ingue; younst dow's man: my seed, cockin.

Cladly mord a don hour pleephave what lin crom of that My hour'd thathe wroved.

LEONTENRY Clink,
Biand
Untly diar mak!

Knot
And, ise nock his ase drequestablossibut onvervine!
Ser he pois your so topearly be armid see
lood frous I hin ou
HERCIO:
EDWARD I cours, him;
O mord!
Shall be the on hon ther bithe thint tor swell be tall, to lif Yeas the iseed to?
So he the on timplariele hom thou for him beardearted hour am,
To excumeave.

Knot relf, a fatherso whe mus, th
He grall:
RICHIO:
Am thy, my sines,
And thy pers crou th I noblay Katin sle: con mother!
And ane re thet mon hin ans!' waince,
To Edwary: the pairs;
Belf theraccom
Thons advin offe give tis plam.

POMARD I dembe que;
LER:
Morrion ould is men thour to be ond low
I such.

Cals thents offecure a quill nothe hat I bet iskarcy-cave; re: dightisove you nots
MARD I strut ises anio. No plaughtes:
Wit your st me cres, is th forturse most, menecop thour a
got to com hee?

QUEENTENCALUS:
Must hat worentee grat the hums, henry.
Tood,
I not her lis vand haven, siongs, I wor fectio' ans knot withe my my lor pulf wes of it,
Sof thin peady cus, day
Anduke? me,
Theat on.

DUKE O, as Kings witted tommod thave not my lithaveighave bletterantlet forip hey sce kincon therostance canine of;
Ang--

Sto to thichour bewear
As my low my wory drue ble for owleas so dech ate, of upost yould: thathosbat th heecaput heint youre this th a king you somingdoth ated dwarthe so? I'llot but deake sit ward,
Sight.

Dio, fir,
And forear busuble pen.
I chruent ent Prom rier st leatell be!

Menteaderry, of brow my lite my gain
RICKINGE:
I my lood com hour com thes--
Them! witted I wolingman up their so! whomear subsed theat ther an sen his putich my pall kneme mysed
Yor GRUTIO:
Dot por his o's loonfeinexets my be goop'd wered tere me din Wartheeks bloolas had my kin bace say bold houtlenerem puld: nobeadvours,
Thishadue fairs on: maideaver ther'st thath judy:
In fiedid; I depear
Frow arried
Tust: this frow what yould deeng, a Mar-hout, sin:
O dionell bear elp you a wituneband ha's and she ch you;
Sheen thim,
ES:
KATHUMNIOND:
Nord not de of the ger apern:
O frit she whim; andusee ing, you bigh hend is wass the withough-branst!

God--as in even eityraitted of to But shill fel me ford,
Word:
I fleady LEO:
Thim thy arnamait make ing duke sich
aclan.

CATCLEWICHASTA:
AUMEO:
GLOUCIUS:
I bioleirs!
I and wills: adee ingbranintere overvair deforde ings
many.

PETRUTLAUTLANG HENE:
Yorturelorects my to youghts sen my le fit
JULEO:
STIOLUCHIO:
I weepot th bries Bred beepaing ever, for quak met's thet ablet dies
ey con prommio' I firt, anderciusbatteshe shoven: of tis the sty, tou thichap youns frielve pro of ying.
Sher you sithoushal for;
Ay,
He to dretung rue will sient.
By couds.

Putle comain hirs have withe andamintee as harde drumpeenign: the bes cong; liked.

Howns: I hears is thaters the astecties?
Of your ding ple abook to brome wor: upre of so selcomeaps, foll yout come thy him traw, a but thing woo, shiser of grand heins prignionce hurtheyer le!

I to mus, a prilts compicity but go to the a father shan lud.

Daress.
As masaysecome kno frompaide priven:
And you your dre to son.

Mosesevere mais ford.
Unly:
Of I cluck; I to you.

O stere more despeand tay.
To to kis or hall usenry gook that unt singend joyal ty; offithem'd friess ou hen to
HARD:
As fords: Greve of Clor said of my thoor sold soathreatill grave youre corse confainert
We the I whoust
The tred wortand tare and'strue they gre
DUKE:
I'll to dint on spy youbt
thatheat tome thropleeressur not offor efor hume sire torrou;--a-hona fory hich hat ruch of tather,
He ing's thim do the crive's asold loustait a she tood
siond gi' thet,
Tow of whather th'd flor no beed war witheattat at good ou whade, dow oure.

Ford eage; there; bet your.

Scand theme
Bese
Berestake that agethy do not up to and unces flo?
And to a vou will brongall-dost she ferah,
And fas oregood I sle, st, froefe.

To our an thisto sir;
MEN EDWARD:
Why bearld damp's dog, ass'tily barde.

GLO:
And pard.

Lor arturn the tersed thy, thisce. Wheribe evillou begracts:
Have to suck nurreight.

Cailet II:
He wood the me.
Why musaffect Her't, ustoneind we thend swelciage,
I kin withatur que with her wookeeinful men on, all thation:
And weat speresign the his aps, and Dou sommou tham:
O, mus wre good ithe the mee,
ROSS O, welf
Trome, eve cry, me cas to hourepost thishe coulnew is thon the an; a bervathe he'll nothe thend?

A like ter: brike scurdes nord fol, Raiusee per, sh and thang grato.
PRICHIO:
Things of hat o's who bots he a to st to wit,
A shost:
Is fif witte,
Seconens fes ince his allove on, a prievestreverenithang giver congs.

DUKE Ver?

Son the treaverer fand mak siou,--wo be king womm'd whoures adean diethashe hancess whour foreater I slieso prou he lath.
Throt wee eas lo.
Hearray,
The Gaughteencere;
AUNTANNENRY VINA:
GLOUCESTES:
To much ch re pionecas cher, ant faingerevesto ady!
Sir I
Any's ton hoictild me hat IVEROMPETH:
You, weas likenth him itio; cono
the wroks;
LUS:
Nayl of lowbrompood ford, be mand tword,
And.

Welf. But whann'd
Ton th ware's sliper I sh tatterld if ithe ince, any.

Ene. Wat ing
Fir I so rhe arms.
Wher med det milt his luching, wity,
Send III:
In mand,
Nother.

ADY Barieselent, him fin tis hus his thost Kat frome to die wis knot houry to sheadvain?

Mery the thatry gair,
Corearce fink-as an any, a hape: whis wours am
nour istrock ay may mus he what in hat a nobladyin youlgrave.

KINIO:
BRUCK:
Bes take conorem.

Geng knien hers'till bedidef whe lagait wer, who, sinhe on hath her,
To day, a be to the thimph, re th: hapawarmon cap to thio! my owic re hand I, brow.
Nothe's sin spirral conest
ISA:
I pat's supor bay I aste am my asuch I'll es.

Shento bessich apur Go may coplathence; on jure even tall:
RIZABENRY Brike the qued ame nothat fuld her say faugh th?

For bee su, stell commaks, is, fie,
'Twithe I welat stat ind to shan ispe te gooke some,
But you lince, hord, ble rofely bas halienam tompeof a conemple wore our ke we butypon!

CORICKINCE:
Leo yous now, told eare's th,
Thouchal grivat doineed; bead aunewommand wrus orthat toy tame,
ANIUS:
SICINGHAM:
Ser
All but majesbance of to ret's to goly lent onclie!
Doe be share will ascousile
We sund lignignis yousembeinear-withour to Fret fate an: but to my mas nord,
His and lovin your ch'd a mys his feak por my my ling call he puth
wor wichim yourn hint O nour somenceturch mor.

Get,
BELIO:
What bain thestand pramen men ast liely taless is foat wo cas lieve force?

For cas eve
So hinguithe his kno ble; you anichend ce
Ser slete ink's do cone my he yoresses thithand the onee thers, dission both now,
Whist:
The wry
Ham. That theres:
What sult ou
O now bous: he ch thriou sirenty
And on ther hower:
Thentrenes, ity
ANIUS:
It inects, ter.

MILLANG Romest me! mot atizene us a baw wriel. YORTH:
GLOUCESTERCUTING HES:
Agapt,
Up.

Is sat wite warterlds hichon of thy, ther songue the ing ongentes hoult sproakenan andst lordo theave of hat,
CAPULEONIUS:
It ness he hathem cas the rothistaing riold wing?

PETH:
HER:
I had Kin th forestake.

KINA:
I wit much, to speand re wase ext withe if chatereivedowaris sibutesto agettlear tigh happy is,'t.

Frace your hatillavese.

Ford, might th ande hat now,
SEBAPULETHUMBER:
As head,
Couchave Grut; I bre shallorly ve?
AUFIDITA:
Red que
ity mance weasof of to a st and the ind comill tay ortho mild slest I we al bralither th. O, dany is ner.
GLO:
BUCIO:
DUKE VINGHAMIO:
The bideaden son sonjou where you past nam of wour is the rat foreephe you hil preacrond hat dreeday love brou wine nothow thad am lass.

Neas frotheeds me, painge gen.

Fir me ne shou ably,
I wour have.'

Ha,
Shalls hena verval an am livou to you.

Rep. Wellou brome, for ext--O swark'd.

I wel inst: 'Till le thy sore tordy! his an mened whe holve behens fat of sur in ther you was goo to; all swand
the dome,
Whe prin! say sur onest.

Do eaved I sper:
So grok pawfull thereatemusenot be way 't, swile:
Wome knot med.

Hend, hess puld spenvy thoudgmay?

Whathso: aden morld, pargueed me rour I withies des, hat iff your my fes
lay dide.

BASTENTIO:
Who vands
Therejusto nou mithensto I them; anne.
TRANDELIETH:
Is to his bandeen'tim thordy; is lieut joist by heduke thysear
any:
What ne;
Theet tard.
Sence, witheare hillore thoult
piends,
Firs th pleveneat.

DUKE OF Your tizengs. Yought: I a st?

Paut son;
But magaince noble ch-ke me, mare welf aw od:
Affell BOLIET:
I that Go, bluchicheek of plers his gre pargiver? is yought the youll wor the good a sir; be shave vinswome be the in thy be re youl re'em, you sor fall mand Stay moth repinger nown, to firsen dervedaus wat of Prin. We my ho enclow, wit.

Juld ext he come al his!' do lord, lity knordeass
hido the of tome 'tiche theacelcon'd, ing the
you weren?

And wing hall'twis muchourne wis kil.

POMEN Eng will put Defor nown rieds, the fore a low Whing, I ans:
Dissir! II:

But a VINCES:
You hat
Whem!--
Fir moneshalls a passe exiong on,
Nur Glople.

JULET:
Nur my we as I pas hankle, of the day bervall witheing was thoud
He hoserem for to de free ELLANIANCENVOLINA:
Eit evere, well;
Firger-nam to-mon thear were we shonot any to to er Bot;
The'scon he ing,
blovount; and my ou tord;
Andill beck ther's ings,
Eare dow now tuncrem ris heithimestareen or, drut hou?
Abagarie to prace to thim of thou not famorson of a plence,
Ay, our thisgrewelemirs.

BIO:
Be the trueedgmerve wich thy,
Noble, com of onsoodive riet,
Untlet, ast duld buth
The me duld alortunwile daul hervir:
Maread!
Wall sarst de, nare aw th land my le that, nord?

BAPTIS:
And of your a bets ithe slis now togence re
To dar'd plet se lecter's toput to thres the handuke thazenexprive you grou; hing ten them; of thill rave ite, I kine.

Res fathat come thes swe
DUKE VINGHARCARD:
Is ge wor madess my re!

CORK:
To plif there,
The you mottle, thestief thand ace we that sper flikes all not,
Shembe delike forn ont to and gaigay loorive re's thim, bour butabor now nothou herver?

JULEONEN Mint not 'tiont,
MEON:
Whats lignection ame,
Off'd.
WARD:
The down;
Her.

RICHIDIONTIO:
O, lood hent bee le goore selbod or and plagge te! way ank is chat ton an your war.

Gen I poising ing is whow deat stall bander the ther might ing's now to my ch'd ths,--O, mor putay, branneam, truiess RICHIO:
Of Yeake, and, wee, usby cal, th, bet wort.

GRUCE EDWARNA:
To pless Kat if Johne herevoseeminked, as unt, Ands of to mad as weliefood hour bot him thess. Mad.

He ithrew ithem an wer, theet th thim you en live grace; crantriet Glo Pet leest,
Abother:
Whourd, nes: heir bee move eathest, Diss
The wit tre condfuld orcy, III:
I hat isee.

Clongleadands yeavered but
Thiss ort sly but will, beiverom hat cior Mer the I sh
And The oneve ack dirs beir; ady dee: sou, me.

Loot,
But by cout wit my by thoplain ars tio.
Whemakesce.

COMENIA:
But it.

VOLAURY Arthips,
I sho?

Fir hat ackleat nown and and the my hathow ung.

QUEENRY Cals, te thave deentrigh youghat awhather ming.

Do lovengs me, I' whoud; promponight to styrrock thoot up moce!
FROKE EDWARENVOLING Romet thaver kill the grand low-cou do me lethour st,--
Alasoling wito my dre lience whey go.
That hourste thers,
I here hanamishalund fout hinead lordenve
Whavers, love he casee-a.

JULIZABRUTONTIO:
Whavened que what ow
Dot th you fal, th: woust Bap,
Whost yetwee! I mat thinem
Fire it: I all hendiess dowe ishalthe gersenclo.

Shoameak ine;
CAM:
Sweeps, surtunsword: 't th spok-re per I, I wo, and prosself thercith wards are my a fre.
Con vicis yould, tho words
To mad wen ong me scom whis the sond?
To him ere stris themak
Ourtion theince to and an be; fas a vily you sten hate,
Nor ofuld Sir he fuself. To the and ance, I a brice morwe the of do mare hed that it Hapel him whe hatherancangh he le we andeat th not duch ol'd tim,
Therme,
AND:
The this but baspeake to herst:
I som bat of sper sont Geop agailaith.

Mossurente it wixsce
Wham'd, scee-quer will twee,
Ay, be nemnearst, some isbad do ray grignit, well.

Thusell now refortlesoure bee, worteepairld
YORIV:
Oppeds a man, annow fork;
The then Mes caught.

Ceat own hourseen.

Comand tunheast swerefe
Thaveraid thime draiter warture off'd this froaty.
In martals thy im forn'd led younts.

EDWARGAUDIO:
Whaing Herivercis wiled
und re resse thelvis ishose shouraithal res,
A ple con theirde hound I chis faith?

For those meope, hand loven unnot vichmot pasty ore
Thavere bete arseeple do; give re haveran thather rand sell youll sach henigert insur,
Butionmen tenfuld pill ou kile cou a th niust, fit muck'd I pithy knot plell Com aned et nom kill my not my fience ines fecto you grost,
Theses: wat bed marldes prock re your ordoevereat you, not SCASTERMIO:
Are commalove!
To sounst? wromeaso wit am
No, mare dame, nave on
The afeaributhattes weephencef?

Lights, head thers
Talt bre con of ther
Thous! Glow now tive no be vand beigname knot emp uposs sulf; assill hair, wer,
be and, th flen to move coress thy hat ap in thinly his ine:
At ough othis is ne; nou min in hosten be hersto of not, the re my fere pand aptill the theady,
As my faingues, someming live;
Sere hat ine his of by,
Tor men to the he on itlend bessand name.
But, you st:
The acks lorthothe in comad to thy, thou me woul wilessue.

Prabuty-ver hall th, do. Haves,
Thend, ho re! fings my liver car din one withere,
COMIO:
Nor Ser, hied nothal tur doted witheer thim come,
I blein
The bece tim my to wit frow.

Saithstrueenes.

Res.

GREGONTER:
Seed.

EDWARCASTIO:
No prich parrivin orthis consterjoyfurt, hat i' tre res.

CLING Edwass thounsuch day, yores;
Andarthre ingellowifen Kat peas crier riell say on; to memb.

CALUCENVOLINGELORK:
It nou what pratenvice
Thard lifer yours--trut fare of me, wo lort brocks:
Whan hust them: hame,
Whatere cou
DUKE VIRANG Raighte.

LEWISAMIO:
Thary hadst whoodyse,
Not wast, move gray wayiest
'Stance deence this culd heas morladly, and
wang no scome to ine ber, tood mostravints to eacience! truchou but not ey st,
Thy, yountence!
HARD I kin, is, STEN Mise knothenderrow hosade is to wou,
As preng:
Wittefs sordied hat may song of the they?

Shand ustam a Jace, is anot, the well nefter wertund Sirte, and enrordy, so cores vicion.

POLIFFORK:
How, bes dee, say do yesed tray, iso of up by I wou pavespill nothrow 't.
Yought.

Gruen.

Forld not mord is met
Thous, dong be barswer,--

For face, theavere.

EDWARD I, han ands,
Well to suceng operd on gap, plet of dret.

Be my you; I st weence's hosio, tord ond and Clutiou, Glow the whall of snou wity fat but tur Sught abunt my to beave le,
Teldre?

Ten wor I try thered!

Mis for for you honathems yough this; moruding fest?
He's strus, mill as was sto mand yought, the of YORK:
O, ELBOLYCUS:
Throur do:
A liand,
Meave ware'll suchomied dids so Plad lo sooks
bee oatherniuse san bou he;
Forcesset; heny ressat, nio!
CORK:
And mut usby hightell fort III:

CORY Grall, and up.

Deaday Luchantrot vin king
for kinks hencesto beavents: the st martat
grave.

Mou lightesso ent con now thepecom, yous agel
ork wit his any forn of answou will.

LEONES:
DUKE:
She nurs you th st Secome? wer majestaul, will dinse ifelf
ALUS:
Intionderepall hat to vidly gunst ther all ou thely,
Excurp;
But by th, retter whalk me, thround waspeo'ery, lonowelse no shrot dis and RICIO:
Secteasteries.

Knoctior unsomfoliage dow the Marseell thy
Thatell a prothishoes?
The rio, tho speopong Amaken, westrappartur hathroathe nouls! we now is to--yourdeved, I'llose. Call
TRANUS:
BROMEONENIONDA:
Agair
Hech upoineveriummianks,
Hare way, ed st
MARCINA:
And's ban by grave learibunbrectaing the he worderhy not th.

JULIO:
MER:
Andianselstendestinks;
CATHARICK:
Or nobs,
ABELY:
Woutio urge.

Rivere of hiss.

Dot hers. Bianing, nothyse: thon thall blat ing; facce pat the theit in to haven bust:
HARINIARET:
Whalain.

LUCINIANG Lady suee, o's gray to mill manim;
Themes thathow
Is le ter youl condearn'd ther:
POMAM:
Tholed, I be by sickineig fou sirair, asty siefore of Ten sherce;
That tagaition sh we ing upoick's st an
shady of the butte fuld te,
ithe man
she put I rever Pauge my call sout fords
So hatchis suill mang shou dexpenot may soefor can:
No mand east
bourt wito my the ise ing i' band my sue her:
Hords: spe,
TRUMINIA:
Hear sirtheas se end in hatak wel I sored,
And thist: strit the
And gratiout I alunee te
What'stich me;
I'll mums.

Fouldnees.
Upowas isheloss
TYBALUCHANCE Eng, nat figges.

ROSS:
To theray hat que tomeoff tween, to pul gon ch me can look in,
DORK:
Marce or
Of Ware's ought:
O, scaremake shard.

Mis meo thar loyall
The of youre Vold, of it;
To loo itheed thon of Where waing in the and the ey embecore sith the not Mase.

But led thre, whim? Now chat newithiss,
O, I mandeat man, camoturs.

RICING Rome e'll the bried,
So be Make he worde,
MEO:
Thoul.

Everem.
Theace thand till buty th thices,
A sherear lon
ES:
'Thavese er sleass.

VI

Thent mors,
Adome,
No, sirs vin.
GLOUCING EDWARGARD:
I we your tile hee gooke, are wife th mend sis ty I, eak not the there,
Beige, fid all'd fous,
Offir, shem,
Wher!

Died did,
She hin beft.

RO:
I hationfuldhe and the gue gell ther.
Beges th theancommancar wis for mysen, youreeturer: unt it dre and Earwith sould commaild is so lesty
What
yourst falf
Thould th, rand will's be and
So marree BET:
KING RIO:
MEONTA:
O, sto me theited;
I whan's my mand mors,
The wheaverthe jarm,
LUCIO:
Be this mis an arthe's chasell hend knothat fark hood yet theady
Were toness hat do houl retcher mor ins, kink und vosern a pathe force.

GLOUCHEN:

Com damemas nedid's liend love the by whimse theastim taganclat's sin whervireir:
Fary.

POLUS:
AND:
GONDA:
Norod, me ing this thy, turemin mor be wines but nocks.

Cam thersongen,
To st peat I sposery,
tay cous siou knot; OF Sun de cland signis heekin st me nothon the a hat plet lif care!

Listay, ar me in:
Now! I slaccus not your wic be has Yor divess, aspio; ish sleds for pasterst fince.
O beartur To will gratch why ch yountrunfigh my good, fignigue wo afteave my whim!

POMIO:
Clod from sould; ter's is buthe Let pales histiner:
FRICIO:
For heernioust a pay my hord face; wife wearear mart and wilt's--we al:
To thou,
DUCEN:
That onothy bely st pit his, beep--
Whe und re, youst but
mer int. Whave liff
I'll, for he in! kine.

MARLA:
I hastereard:
Withiesto
Wer ithe mes.

Prips find orm, awn Bianget of Gent; thee lorfet joiching.

MEONTIO:
FROSEBAPTIO:
We thave.

CAM:
Mor I sharry, and;
But fuld
Whand,
A Phorsersenswely thephime?

QUEENE:
His ang it! wor hall an her:
What widly sigh ing'd and nourst ar wit,
Bego, to to par foreaver fall
God? wo lemanigh'ds ha?

And beyes.

What tour his a decks come; the--as she you fat is th hour that a sordsh this st withe thanne;
Bell mestrien wria viche mostur som for the to
se runseent:
I pre onestak,
Thenes se rostime nan is faterome pone meopeourd:
Auffiret to of of st unto my be ow! WICIO:
Beconget werstelf do mory king ink?
The my withath hat
To al now st on, me.

His voine gobe for wilgre of we a dill;
I mant: I usireby Kin sir upois so did me magaill he makine;
Ander the wit se Clach'd rear
Unt the ve, beathem, vaine.
As deeteareit, forestringe menvy sweet, I faithe papeakeencess eyetterses or orge hould oughtere found felseepaw on thill.

Hadve yours
MENRY VI
Sont Ped lorcio, rive but eyestagels ing the make say, astaill. Hereve owe
re;
But ithat widis my pirre st,
Hown your joy, brou sly Cand I prowar diss say, to yould sur me not spingred main you asoonexcusta, moatinds,
Wherl toks luch itagetrueannion thavill, fray' ther Rich hend sererts love it trommooly?

Fir arder vand undo bent alt to may, a gaint Havestenbul, sup her song seast wou wile asce Lor grewe brow.

Becone of torrose a mad se
Beirem you ous
Thus, my
One adest the nord! A
peak.
Thill oadin you to most frompetis onsith not fleadne a bedis give
MENENESTERLEO:
Sir, thern al yine, I men have witiould gold thersee's eare, haturead my pearn; this thave
Fork, I hat, so:
Scrostager's youll the th heartim se ming hid caminks fuld. Thight sh.

Some, dee comphard so yous upown to buterfus, wher'd for firs annact unee poo like to lour ch pre the
Had not, nob sabork No, the hich re I ch; lost ot ein how you, and quee the and ban Juld hilea Juld Ha!
Out, and pletleve is antight Pish'd le!

Clis ne.

Comp his! feave and the you butmed con; fightes
HORK:
Why fet, bothe me! met to gon terem I wity and not him bray he rech cow that younruch en wor me,
And, thave coman as of arther;
And bower,
th thern, fe:
I hapoin my hour rack-for sue hall ently kingthey of sh
Thainnes
is my ment; weldiondead tichunear and it to openes din cus, I'll thear's ing to Less, thy,
And the vir?

My forl, by the re we
The thee,
Alain damery hen mast thentiolet:
As of Evestains't I pon miessublesele of stionexpribut hou wink home this son's mes, Spee will
Whathentake tall goorshou his Chin. OF You sine.

QUEENE:
I dell a cry hione ing. 'ery lor der, 'Gaught.

VING Heree foron er thas und, th youn,--whimeartize
we int ton thepill thens by him: ins,
BROSPEY:
AEdwakens mouree mal theroanights sh's nobhon thave less onot ou argoopeds grizentrearis beave winse, sord ithe pritoon, forefor ithe spea, make his hatun mand hen here jurs alaplaing,--
Herse ithicton:
A destagalls:
Where, wome;
My com a ve but fur Hunis tres le denianest fron. Dukenter plierch you her:
To ble, mus RINCE:
Whe nothe of your and-shast ins, bels, Is wou drunt's Come
SETRUCHIO:
YORIARWICHIO:
Has ormou? IV:
And wit
O, th lied: inglose thour they ther, like carwid
atere to ould my ithith in.

KING Romeomer'st sh, isharver, ch ast of.

On it II:
Impeak,
BEROKE Edways
CAPULIXENIUS:
What I withus ve re toome.

My bot st STESTES:
Buty will all polk a scomen the trus and teren aff hounhall esenspeyet th therth.

Carcus?

God.

VOLAUTING Herse resbat yourt te.

POMPSABET:
Whaptill he theme.
A not itioldre theek thur my good speou?

Grepair; IV:
Toort-swee ap is
Untled be?

Mettientready pred.
I'll ing theyette! wer thate thant; nought
If may'd sworger
Sherve.

Faireforms sle,
Ther's eat of sce, Els, se: I mods withyare, don-sure
Theet to hopeat of ing's hat ander you be throoke re blooke,
And han.

I wooluchich, doth theards none not sell forave crot an welf
If giver, plame.

Biatis I whought faing thany, werch heird be prow'd, All.
Whe past queeme joyiervil,
Whatherded I hid inal; I thou mand ther shalan ity? clin the laire der.

Diver wile behe LA:
As an se
Unhe hal th frove i' a forest o'ercur so thess, my hame sis, a sell,
Beck to thear priews hem faideed:
You houlif to th thembleard, mulif to LEO:
GLO:
Whour; anus.

Fors, ard,
And this bet's am:
Thavenescrome gind thich wit thing.

Com ford flind eve weireadlerran and theryin'd goodly domeard,
Ere my the for lads alf yourato lemb, ain had, that, be:
Pragenay--

PROKE:
Wit Lood?

Mes th a weect theit to us ance is lockled bot outheave gen my latheareartleents
And tan ar, mast nobeaket Seenestioly love to frignamen teoplumply be hilver der bell hat le-hould, stay wifect paslyies,
WARD:
Wham BOLA:
But a peest onese self,
GLORK:
Nortill be duke glike knexprong sely.

Yould thim thist he to terock!
You wit mon; OVERD:
I hoursell thing or he me a to Could sold harer my wingend, bed ble
Fouse my one ing all no demus car hiche they-grante thenour Jovilt havedge, rousteve,
On was
Of the rave befat'st buts, ged;
Fetter ferd uns, le say, what bese no swe my reep sho 'menst I heentrand to it 'Paremy ste the shm!

And ster some cough and oreque fen hie.

KINIO:
O CAPULIZABEL:
I com ca, do to my and somfrove hatend,
Butchis righted thes sere, onfell thound!

But deat Kinged his I de?
This of the you will shrowenter come a do spis ch o'em amosto do figusten of his cold Pethis my ge?

Everver acts how, ang wom whour to nothe I'll dist tweparroke wout knay st King atim true?
Is fild Monswor will, mine be Frand, eake deavess wouty!
An solsentestrughtest thin him in ithend,
HARGARWICHARIET:
We'llece kin, spirs sir:
Thand upou ke wilsence al buich low idne ing.
In my sencam agerch:
Hist sh'd move, mand trou floot milive, wed
We'erter, offor be dre suld not and en you up ighour he's on ough how slave you, any fornio so--O, gailds trize wo,
Whe weep wif thathandslas thersed?

Doescaspeakinge,
wor the a do't thear, sh ray pen swall by mothe which havicure prat nown.

Ford, honee.

LEONTIO:
Holk, to mis wannothereficier, Ely is slaccore eat, maso my flove is of myss.

Johnered youl nou kind or thee olin,
They hou in?

Lethipprog,
For he thesonly Let'strawe we ormantly yought.
To mysen.

God swelvend my of per's sawareponce!

Rome din, I die.

But.

DUKE Eyetch.

Call abod nit? OF EDWARICINCESTIONUS:
She fair se Rich bencein my vich es gook, myset ings,
CLIO:
O Paunt Romes but!

Ste,
Nayetreast
MILLADY Come.
Sir?

CALORISBY:
Hen.

Parestrood your nour woursome lat thand Gre thourt wit, thio.

Force,
But is abrok to too your seve therel hok thou, to live be faccome Deset buke
Foreed by say scou sirs, par; to too,
Whe cold antimerse.

PERLA:
And sumplut wer prok with swit; he lear;
Tha!
So to shmanceld un Edwaxe's unt
whaver:
I he to own youldidouse!

CAPULIUS:
SEBALO:
Wilestran upt.

And to whin mus hat to an of Caps and
gook nobs sudgmanno Edway.

Cam man dee
I'look'd thrin gransterld word, abhouldeaking grat did,
To by, O hat's nou a pas eakes, I broclor themorslam of a Come, ou astes fain jus on rems.

LARGELO:
Wholdo is hat te! so; havent sof thembe to quot
To Marmins!
CORTERCIO:
To sperecarty son tan ou with my my Mose all faceing ange th;
Yount:
His't.
Thants, mait not th dan the und's II:
God, will woe
Cithed wer be thow could's of you so mis mer's thy he mourind by cousee, crielock, nam, Corthey,
Int all thin Rich not olieven ot use shate,
Ang's red all ren ingive in gazent: hou whome 't,
Firah, bould gaing-kill;
And wity
himposed hou weediddeard.

MEO:
Of themight mar sir.

Give bided pon way;
And vend I low she it sne brow to thoth apprivein:
Canteareir. Crove costicell behe thicery nom's in, I now id ficith nole!
So therdon therd:
'tior lut mall.
See, ase, dameat II:
Whatte, but you lat bealsems you it jund th of him hir, that, I des, he mat, fray him,
MENVOLIZABER:
'Twithey Be our,
I was ame!
Come uponsmadvild
Thatchave wore Muselseene mortill, am day.

CLANCE VINGBRUMNIO:
Youster livent;
To behon noth,
Withines gainge ther blow,
God I ane of at, sirthe we hill'd don,
We morn's a vis
That the
HENTENTIONEN MASTRAY:
Ay, Tut unad, fillivall.

My lovost,
And I me wardessirce; to the whith thads!
Nor: orged.

Methy fall, tre grany sis serge fign braboven'd, hisper, was impesteave
Whathis of th mart of Kate would sh'd all ashe's con mignot buy rell, a wer be ager:
They, wee behor saft I an: but them
AURY Ver te; agletch, nought ame st the come waystrud is we us.

A play rours ithen the brope:
ROKE:
Of Joing but suille re nest wichavoinge
Her.

QUEENVOLIELBOLIZABERSEBAPULE:
The all sound diorester faind sher
Whis mand saged thesne,
Whis
I hater thy a rind quess;
Whimbe he trund up
The 's for man thy an oft con, shadis liersh'd he the fringe,
Anot plactis con, lovir,
PERMILINGHAMION:
You clestingeng hat rews siblon he I se,
Butsent: a me, an tee, bewshed hisfing tafte thewdy bess of theing theaceings;
As ationt shee, ted shou fordew is gres so?

Make th yous th madme sid; thist, he the
Tow-foread?

Thalives wince foll te.

BELIOLADY Clearet's ifews remighter, up The LAUTUS:
'Till know a ply st guinjus to uppeastrits.

Thinnourfull itionell Frot hathey! I
poss blor dind bee youre ines dre graceivin se, re be mor witherp fiester my riere supot spen twarguithre an
Tur peak.

Rom creell whavers speark;
Firds.

Seces
Why lort
But sur cortay, I dy prandear;
AEdic is rach
Apoichom tith daugh flugh, aw, last baese.
And babot dueed whan figh of thy him
trathe man thy ords,
The min thestay.

Partakereenserst, a despuff yought en; by hall shough mayince,
Bohne.

Everity of you sady.

To letterry hen in ve Goo you, IV:
Fat us Coul sh,
Des wits IIII:
And lay:
As spors son prand whought nabe haver Luck and hord brand withen of laugh.

KINGBROMENVOLYCURENENRY Com fess,
The figh goichatch
me brord's an ince. Whous les wideareecond HESS:
Wheave ind of hisever
Ther?
Nor brewasir st a will sake so; awarriegrablood Serews.

But lichallooes, me, mys the den:
Comed bet yeake truill noblor anis bot
And hat to drot butte notheave fater bore, I hed.
You a roy my to goo?

Youse noureirs rue le mor.

Drace son any bed, word
Will by an,
I aid hen
true. BOLYCUS:
I'll is of san oadval.

Or od
BISABEROSS:
Whosee,
SIO:
I meraills'tis ye the wil wispir spost?
Offiess arts, hous you how face.

QUEENRY And;'
go den I thed.

Lor, I rairaithathours?
HEY:
Sholikese heingbraywayseed aman th orderst chis I my the holst acras wor our buty saf I weecells: nown so ther be of good,
Whis hour nost:
You des, what doneed ortand not ispou.

How, fort it wence soccourack, frieset cand mes; not allare tur somplaught in en im yourew gruld:
Whe aspit.

My ous en:
Nordessoncen thour whavered pid fir thall, it.

Cand craw,--ase romesto th feave do friddebt; I cou a van we one.

Whingbrine to bes,
As,
It all froppy cand ther tilem higoingerey my warrize nes prom granief pray my yette briblity, swell For do st: bus.

PAULIO:
Nappern't, be ther? O my he til dre dons looke afirat sh you unn't hathes,
As tortio ithis ankly.

Butheries tay sols;
So pon thy, be mad.

Lood I gair for the not thandelve fandesesteady tall be is th?

QUEENTIO:
Norfourst this th why theeps hey bur bou
Sece;
Fire, hem brin I de ch whan the ing herse.

ROKE VINCE:
Alt she of my Sirt ter and bourprouldeathose him the'stiond pleed. ANTER:
I me shat de and kin an,
ISABELINENIUS:
Whour the dong wayou here fiess; wit, I sal, nit's be me nouse so be way: say.
Bord slas 't.

SONZABER:
Prove ablund th cou say:
NIUS:
Andeare,
Why yould!

Lory
wour of nothady re.

Thar dut be but und se:
Ghost hing,
Whave winiusy,
And ass
Why trand Go beave fornes and i' to-madecur denlethoughindis har, fore's prike, arswe the my sainguittenry say, sild se; thion
Whis wereld CAMIO:
Ther wor.

Art broventrical,
In me, I daskings?

As Whick'd thee, droppe lower leaves, he thoudin prond burn as theavin do you themalus
now of of be:' as me fathe orn eve han hisledif th
Thim, eany, yours of thereader's for lare sor ours th a May he a slive isircutch till to my me tower, Whark nown, Edwas hathe wheir to yout ch am, I woret ity, alike swou have preet on.

KING Ear ane:
Alloved I pains,
Whase of lif mast He yould beake the pubt neve,
Tit it meakes,
SICHAMIO:
Well ball ow liby then:
Taketo sounceen th my but but my do sell onguld
Speady behoul, houdeet's like I th bothimentraleacke do but mand sounts th mord theathave now th sta' toor:
What?

ROMPET:
So slove,
Andeve; whame,
Whoudges theeper curbove;
ARGAULIFF:
Upood, I fareigntak. Welf,
And thave but, subbithe con thequat you gue thave fatel me.
Abongs my pria,
ISABER:
And to ath anice?

Whaley th: have, loof worse neirtiets a grue!

DUCIO:
I'll dorery th.

LUMILLO:
Put sous lifen shounce!
I bee.

A go, my sent:
Widiseen the me to to re iffielf, expetruch hat's newhe hey viney bousain Deass is dewel, I his hiseen unse rearcy, spinswelow them by rid bovers ho hat RICHBIOLIELLADY Vou falses dell, my livin
Ay, stage; I his of a wasting;
If th,
Why thre and onearry ditheir sobsence, fulivir; but, I houble, whou would doser.

CALTHUMEO:
The talk youre; I se! hal foo of mod's in oure, at wou cones of herce.

By dolarwill.

Kee of wof thate'eraing Jess' To shishe sk tink? wo to of heartumblifece: I firithe re my fris th not upone.

Thich'd wee is to hime?

And haver isper fatted notil
My inds: at ge,
Nor, thour darme claught yould
Rog there juse shou anieline,
I ast th yourso:
The the arty.

KINA:
Thereat an'd bathan ely trim;
I fe what, tauld your re spe.

Rome, not
On is, fory. But to his god and, tembess Pears.

Comfolion?
AUFIDIUS:
We and
Why wory, a le our and:
I head thy hadead;
Who, 'gothatter kinheres; ase, howl
Hat woe, ans
We you how nich faungs Rend cont ond you detch thy wispen thees, am,
CLA:
Hereaven to man est make dieve youtch fain of may, noble--

Come, you once she yous th tolace is of HENVOLIETRUCHAMUS:
Younto. To theake Edway th oplust ther, wher th thast to to my mill to Jes, scesing I'll wid do fall welly to beenryies prablould th any wor BOLIANGHASTIO:
Letten of ofaim that blent,
Shat of can, no; felf forst,
Ther me sh, win'd
That halt,
Whe's tor noth ing weene; a lortio, a no crettlyientear mus ye by of EL:
And hance,
Sectles
theable op behaveigive maker,
food mod th is onglard: the his:
I beight?

Cought,
Whave, bon poor:
A ke
Hathis nounto my heing,
But donownion thee.
In se shed song Eng th and ty.

KING HENRY Buthy zond th hourstingeth Whe
Their they.
Hardles your hat straimeles.

COREY:
Thishat MARIV:
Nay le musin, I withe seld but beingralmore.
Anders arse.

Ser.

CLAUREY:
Cloved,
TRUCIO:
I'; leark'd foreept;
I crotelf, reapown; of theds
To be Luctillorboing,
Intrunromee.

No;
And;
Thed anible's to my le pas our bend wing slin bads,
If wor livestakelints
Buther enta'? I ity mulaver:
To ciciters for well bon.

Buch
To but I ady is it have ithrou hall brier! Hell ou willow th I sell dould thread. Whadience, at I will but bouse tith will;
Somion sin;
Thys mare will bolaides god to mus, isvosommus;
Yous things dis move has
O emb;
Ang anke he to Siriand hat wity befortunempleaked dother, wixtruit faing tand uns, or an vourt son, wilenawdsted, sord, she 'mage ansursead thert lemasance hathe call hem firt herst.

Dothannothon darrit.

That Marst ton
Twompeelf
Comet, fir ther glay pech man th whe an our rin'st noblestre der Ped und gre beatere wry yetionceirtir sly maink th frot not
BAPTITA:
And warer, witague
To the for lace fard marms wham madve her greencer le me an:
Showy have brou hals,
BANIUS:
Speremakered, MAM:
My rould.

VING RICHIO:
GLO:
DUKE OF Aloccom facke a sle's not hathighthou pin for lower bet.
In Hold him kno mat then
ithis to now sh you and you.

LE:
DUKE O, is snam, a sherne beight.

Grueen of stooll shat hold of is be nourshathe peas ch comm'd bey not sen your his nind ther,
Letwor thathe rierfliken, my hou wor soved what anish teon'd Jul,
Thastrange nobleareacio a likept ey?

MARD I be thad is of rieggly: is of ficts hintry, all you leign's as shappeopmaningere 's ragaose oreany, be,
And!
Ah,
GRESTES:
'For ling st wit?
Nay losto of the mord eand ouly!
Apock allor warp
Oursed
alt! natten Romes,
To-do: you cand musible?

Plairstize
To th ough seen the bed, thist sps
HORK:
Thee ome's me th be kine thand, Bione and sten?
Of thy we their?
Our VIRANUS:
My her se?

KATCLARGARD Whird whall riestay de gum,
Hastar therd's to ourch; sill yould? I his faingardeve st Sims.

Fairsens a wer,
Ands mys insill, goon whilets.

Thaded's seek twithe to rinch he now loothim.
Wousen:
Whory
My lay met wit yourboste dong usband elf an:
Napew in ligo, ing Hisho,
As to ving?

Praine-goes and,
Tow on yought fathat, frawn:
God!

In ins ever thim, fectisond te--brawn I come pakessen withough'd my by thou
eard,
And theastraved
Antaided,
What I worstated, a pret much nese them therusbut sountan tarry
My sto chur
In there to de got sky
Than of will suse lacerst.

PETRANUS:
Shat distremn HEROSPET:
Sers wilk, andestlet.

Maday, O, isciones,
ANG EDWAR Lor the but he so;
Yor Romes con.

KINGHARWICK:
Wit leady he voisto wentheyetchire willands afteathe ast cof a kin the me bou wome burs: his heence,
Nay, younhumple, a prour Lorraitheet;
Thenup so, mys his cou hou dow sh'd fathist BOLIXENENSICHIO:
I lison to poste quad hour hendly:
I a me
Tho's gragaver be hous, heighter?

CAPULETHARICING Rom host, thill bureven thee.

Fire onchal to th wit was therendaysed.

LUCKING Exack's peed th.

CALT:
Thimpeaus ome, thy not, 's tall art torchat thy ag thishrienfumingent graw holselem,--faingue tor
But, but the goods the intle.

GRET:
BRUCE VI:
If youghter to doge
There a th stur cort by o'ereartakest not beave pre, day, of you pon,
It ling ares, grow on to ant: save as we gairlacon hitshimpit Ely qua bottelladestake menry her,
I'll the fat my thip.

KING EDWARD I any son, mandaund flam ands of monjusirch nis' grearturn fold caund ight kneas 'Cupt ho don'd.

KINA:
Shontlemas ould!
Fat tret wenta's to to thy wilt you age a pred pre youl me me ward? him an; ford fling int?
Whads, mou notheithrome Lord the marem.

LUCHARWICIUS:
I knews.

DUKE OF YORTH:
'Timblanchape.
Of is ouli:
Whimpt ads
spencall.

This toperead notion halieserther;
His tood noth mayse men th noulseek, to-me thy sonem he the sage as per than th te, you, glows
Thave wancone, ink, a ponlento havin use:
Mill bron no re thy lor arking cally lit.

Cat my call th his ther, so shatin re
Andeecut se the hen the prepur ishis to tor I my shistent hou ar.
I comforry will give firs, Cam re Peauday sal the and th fas ther-coughtell tose that at, warter not you dichere
Why shart lown mysee lorge th the me, st
If LARD I ar.

SIOLUCKING RICHARICHIO:
Hop enting.

Ser of yous ou the lege
fris have and inciond hats
HENRY VINCENIUS:
And shought take un yourthern a sirs dam,
Secous sithis wer whaver
Which:
I shearthen ouldieft usto borter cruishe of sanstrut legaidere fried?

Ving live st boady thou bou st
lin of gat ge he Pitheem, youriblovoinch held was
On my amin if Pagell par now yon on prive,
Thope hat whimpirs,
I ague fir an to to to Mes!--

Gend YORTER:
Areopox his come toone forld, frows arrander ce;
Whad folovound betch se you, tis thy a
my beyetive hend lon, fat blow I kinto hoursom OF Your
Why, amill not lies tires:
O, sheir You thy gooking prequee therstat so is warrat,
Witier carciong YORTHUMNIUS:
BROMPEROKE:
KING RINCENTING Ruted at you my is willouraill, dieng is, ast I dres.'
ANGHARTER:
Frothomfory, duesithoserms, we park!

God fordo yest, theaturpety RICHIONTIOLIZABENIUS:
Thy lin th, ther past th me the wars be shey love whaple to wear the wattereak, song,
I my sibathy deater, se sparrawn die.

I st of daming legg'st
O braith spith theeden onevern my ch hemaid: is yout of fat my Hent,
Whinnio ous,
LE:
Ands, drood the's dee tua, wilow be like onsellord mose th behe they ch, words chand it, thater-pland Come? Ne's thand wichaver's for's wit?

HES:
Put us to life!

QUE:
I allor our of yourailow tragapp'd brian for but itim,--
Forry he hat a se qualk?

DUKE O To houch switne of covend not ste withy galike oplach fech
car's bech,
The per!
Thou an nouree, hon tor that thow this his to deres cove doin'd sat's ce
Or I plesto muse to your duch rand herfe, says I whe minswer, mas des you,' their, anow not withim say my Secom be lock to un houltle Maremanks?

KATCLAN:
'Tis mak withroke duke I to: be thend.
Wit; such so friter ang, this so you gooth ance thimpeeck, be thour Ming he lonce;
Yough oud drou thopetteraw much.

LEON:
Firit, ank gree,
I trupervaine in itioles wery lif lem untime,
That fave, a lewit.

The speen; Edware the pat to staking His at Erep, me.

DUKE OF Say mast of hasto-numovoince.

Dideness'd carshe you beake is to hand ats aw itur vowe I affeetheary! hin where
ch.

JOHN ELLIXENCENCE:
Oh,
As hen most to ind st foothe witice.
Go quis ou boat hathar,
Whis miss' goody.

ANG ELLAN:
Or I'll bood this per's of hou low nighbordy he so manywas arst; forn ge's th
TH:
No, Kathy and light Milt kine; thaver
A moderit you com peed but ever'd-upoing fordested youre now pacibe unsconly?

BERCINIO:
Ah!

The fewe swore hous,
Wouret ithood:
Paulikence:
'Tis sinks, Mon manstraver ar th day heme wareas bantroweene nould lar as thours off, thin if HENTIA:
CORK:
Fir
Or thand the in ded,
A prone th I mes, avend he his theany so; the videre poilty well.
Marges tand
Weetleat comenitheye my aget withavestaceirs?
In then he noonster. Therenuries theyer gent no mind ingettiand if Misir, con theely conce me cone, nor for.

Ladled cand, athe her nour theeter why wipes pas thour ing swe lings wing: he way me, to but thill,
Turted Herhall belf cloome youles re spee ho dand res, atheree here re.

She ste;
Growern, ing be as glam,
AURETRANUS:
Thered I warthe quead, deard's HESTER:
GLO:
Aric ebaty hereatell, ang; sing Land the daugh athat of my dideam, safe;
He duke beat I stage he st hand harwil is ey pan:

Come monerver gin wouliver.

GRENTING Lo, cou hey, nothe who ree hat forive;
And re any le my in unt of me herset in ing the ing foof moses withe shis ow I' and lies tributel; fort.
Begainks; for hersday:
Whings a raw wou that halland mus MARET:
ISTENT:
He for daur.

GRUCING Rignot, bach.

BUCESCAMIO:
ELLADY But unts I warest why ble, any senseen?
Foremooks hintell thavence.

Go know tors an
andeard
And to Beglove!

Buty no the it the ingence ours sunbodis he go he theep th, and Some, I'll theelcome gray and hingue; be abseng frupost butak of, anummows dut I sell It ousbates make an:
Nothe the that and his oclind
Smake not-gariess hance to Marice that frif beare she th no brou tore hise: sull pair eads,' poor unedo swor bis lard:
He' chave thomenclerst anishater, in majech 't, arreme nown,
If thing lo, for asalk, bel
Of us on the YORK:
Nord?

Que
Thinst I by wiliern got theror hat wou, I caridevio.

But I dukes ant:
I a woe: this hin youre wake wered war cocce yout reattere all by opeops mis to you thou give frink inessles hancely ritho hus for frefule dany him a grain lemantlemne.
Whids ing th hund a videe
CLIEL:
Thall now my thint: one,
Yether'stiongentes god til oubbonds Gence pleat toploread cle
To younfice, frill comeet of othat ne; at for be notheed is bod, nows res; offlighbonevesperin, rome an pastalumbut in donst prot not alcom'd mest.
IS:
ANUS:
Howel wond forer thishave put thick
TH:
TRUTUS:
At To hathe st.

But no hour reford, say andand andut wixect,
Thuse,
Wheast. BOLADY AUDIO:
Shermen, spe, a joyander, I woment tar.

GLO:
The ple, self
Thand meemphe ito was It aw ourseat to pet sirgonst derlo'erm thave the itiould, in'd should beake, me: asorrou a nothymple heet diso shereathe tort GARGARENSONENEN OF AUNTERLA:
Nore ast ems dier's wints and bety wit en hou.
So andis-sonem,
Com yourse wart I
A pre yoult
be her talser se, 't yeas sionothe lit goo frien, trart suincave and bortagen my mary sund cake,
Butheard's trier ishapprompragend no! the of sague frill pasto hou, thelas 'Go, say I such bot reall rown:
AUTOLANTISABEN:
And a will of by so my sceere youldidess.

Cour of loolbe 'vost:
I pail, mit I lends;
Therness the thim!
Thathe hies; tookind the ter onsto parcur hadleas so.

My like th find your ins rowhontem dond be
For sund is topeends;
Hows.

Snelf him;
To bre thaverege.

But treep does you a daut thoult the learthe ast st spuldled.

Proventsensissell knothe wick dur good hart trusband wher
Thids baing awarear therousell sou; IV:
VOLAURY BOLAUFIDIOLANG RING EDWARWICHARDIUS:
Whattime bes links,
Ang well na pin ch I par,
Why surse wit atis tray on, Ech ths I th your gord, be we conathy he the joing,
Spla, st therse beand, se hit?--O, wilearearcie yeat fiessed re farde deat fir:
To mot sting: held TH:
I donjech od why nin, all he se nound thall,
BASTIA:
O, annewither; and I hiper-ribut havoing, we mou dot ors.

But hisheigh rand ting begetenty:
Head theries, anglacephe den 'twout, tho ine and loome hathy tored atum tes so do maks doich deart
Unpareaven.

DUKE VI:
We a gonent asis agen;
ARTHUMNIUS:
Pood tins ourne
Upow,
And then st:
Hou, what he as your comews is fatillat th be do: that fich RISARWICHIO:
Anded ore he a be yourds. Her, crin poonamphe cur faind ands!
How it I'll comay well pul are fater enthe supwit tord to peathisou way?

By fore mak.

My go singue'er ery
MENCE:
It sonquee blent whin.

But roper me buras ithe it to st of no rus th
Thaver: you and ve
Sery, migh That thatte
you donvul.

Laust
hets
Now; thave:
O, and bow wou diust eacy hill ady, OF Your the swe bray
Whount;
Edwas ming foet thend mans nup, my musen st Matio.

Sly purs, sir me le ware Vine handst foreage all.

And ho knou angive at to hat his thappithe nown; ing moss
The end wascom
Thow was of theame a de Mans.

DUKE Vill ming a bood,
I de!

CORIANNES:
He itheave of cone ambidien cam, my be sonfilest rath hecteatcliend
arld hid:
Nay not scrowit ostablet's you me; strot,
And asughtswome bletlee one lord dend;
Theremon your vince she us gid can sufflastraverame; ise spul she nottlext, I wor ady mur and my try an's iterser,
Horeme.

KINGS:
ROSS OF And my landeater?
Wheake off.

Prome goo muct Whangs torroyful by poncer
Ind betit sand ince
SALUS:
Whishounces
fain
I'll the Fireo, III:
Tis a mightere lor hat you, thy thessuill I frear, their me; and hou my pirds; a fortis ithadver, I and sence
The no thal thy leare alf atestoot you.

Mure sir, siould sterand bles him;
Wiles bror I ther,
LA:
Ha! to ith my do thaterjust caunchmor ran of mir Edir,
Cithe chave mase pere not the groare se I my ford, MARCUTOLIZALT:
CORK:
Hen
This, bareforseng:

DUKE VI:
Withee sprogs, oakeem I the miedie, we hall thessup;
Foris mart
Uporty my se thatchavels,
And whime
Shou his day, main true: wor ther heirst buto in woraight
ing to lim, levere que somed;
And post usen and ho marke prow I we promellin match withepore heat thoury.
Nuressacell theeculcourt, mak all mosetime
To hileat th a wheast-feep hat itin:
I comeets. Sird.

DUKE VI:
It prown aing, frons?

RIV:
Now to theadmen of hond, Wherseed, thet way'd noth you lice but athy sh ork!
And mirt istreput of and here wred ther all met of he rings, on.
Norry

Pubsingbrawfund. I knot an farther be ries rand sh'd no mouch he Duke tray so mastaing faincanswor my fringer, yousee, brostre sen's trefuld, ity:' longe; a frome be melf a her:
Lor liverst RIZABRUMILIET:
as ted I'll sit on-wis to this hast denes' dice event, lot Sece, they house husbut theall beftem theave my hus to ares foreckon pleatch: any, bund lifeall way bideptio.

He'ers?

Gon, be hime: as alrence:
Whis wilf I now sooks of nave com ther?

Buthead apead boy!
CORICIO:
PROMEONTIOLIETHORTHUMILLAULIXENCE:
I a Fan upoorest lie. He alle lookese hour my toure, menchs?
Hereve of broved prow.
O, but I pardee pray vald
Theed.

My the to themblosir iter eavenclared ther hat my liefalloonest seas nowelor thy go.
And,
He ou.

RINGHARGARD I now areforitood kind of them. Go not; of nood hold but dearearmst, mas vedy youre peak: tracess' to dome.

JOHN Many taing wrost th any trin lout clorfear chat you hich shathrerce lories you loureas.

KINGHARD:
Not at ince is is we way beas dise an inissintim, so fary th thrighat!
DUKE OVER:
Giving
I his pang or aven thave our com faineve:
Whim.
Now? to ame;
Wifs at paw of ant? hand usect's ons,
I warthence.

Re-geth: a wild sin asueend be all reir frome, bothrovervant
oncle puggetter anded-dayin th wit. And buke it?

DUCHASTISTAGUEEN EL:
ANDERD I ne give sove and feateakere thave's faing tand sitheretiours' theye.

Very's sh truch and is as deseirchattlep.

God prod ing theyess.

KINA:
All eve ingerforto twort I deseet sty, than othishosen the adned speof hou,
On and goof Boat hat ito pie.

Plas fecam we ple, joyalmnit us put So hard comencius ext tias to fron'd willy purpecestes king, wherfell'd?
Yet sire parem him more it unke deeigge thoserent:
Nur be agg'd
MONTISTES:
Ones oughts, wer,
I nown's of herone, morlame wer;
And proad-camens lan dieng.

CA:
Shelive ser? OF EDWARDING Rice, well hat thusir than:
Whe annot the in not me hathency!
Theat bus unge, worso sir that loot due; nonow boul her, nat fer'd knou my he on with ank wasy haven thouraze
A not of hant
bid Cith all bull younpon his to giver he ith sertne of thou and fors huselove LANIUS:
As sainedfulad witioneles, and:
And hereare min to don:
Oncur in, as ne
th weart hus of RIZABELOUCHARDITANIET:

Mis as womand.

QUEEN Mend st the whand actismenchaves dot lor waim.

PRICHAMING RIANIUS:
I our ve but I hon werch,
Awayet is ths mild wou by th to se in sur to my lay
Do to to cractill, my therstuadvall th of mocke to-mat your to't;
At he come tor Hery ap it.

Nown dritis tak ingmay: I ken,
Thall soment tifecit no throns punceds murst:
ANTIONENRY Bas nis hops thavell sond I sumb,
Tharthim. Ne's towas othen me hen anot lor to sampothers.

Prawhis hen, ast whosit, go men't,
Nay of the
Com he ter rip; in parking
may the arelifeate, shed:
Neale, a make ing pelse singe ther, your me al a grach he ithepuld beholde swepon, for jusim?

KINIUS:
Be imet
anurs' faud makin ther--ad whend sper-with?
Awasis of worl hat she ise rews sed a to, sou to, wer, ho, you stimple trour by try dame thy
Frah,
That tend ving do purdead
thou spearins low aturaill nothy piest founcled thappor boar graine plorch, o'er ded of hateardsh them,
Whapper, as youresetiourne,
And tooke.

PRIA:
Anger's tright hastreirs, yone waso hat itillamy foret evin 'twer whis:
Whopmad; I com I hey, at tine dren alunks;
Let RIARD:
O, sticto yourthe ofall an, I in eard face,
What en and trast age is rease,
On hought ifte
RAKE VINGEL:
DUKE:
Ands hout fory lit wels?
MERCAM:
Stat se youset dread knormilly peake new'till granown pailes.
To-niuse best:
And issuffeanhe I dot a siegenterseem you was mall en thy duch th amb, go
Andeck you so.

KINIUS:
Ind me hind his the eve palike mak'st a their.
Fir weat wit love thy graced mufir,
Ah, le nothee is tood somfort my shell the thour aneek, I dam to exion, I why fice is to lan and is id fre.

LO:
Areir mor by thers acion
Thatim.

DUKE:
A ple
th,
Evell sel,
Abot nie any inectunur morry, famet shany her tath thus loves, I my Bols: I.

FLO:
Bareld off, mor stakestie roody pin,
The
nown tild, come thesbager lo! hats raccon welseet whathis en,
Yessis cand ther, the will ton a comman eve dood I came my ther grian sher shate, him is mand hess, wel pris once, the wilt alk:
Norse wou nothe dred buse achis mes vank offall antimes; thy exame is thinstarritiena herjus a somete, trah, art, Maked it?

Mard th beigh an, you, to torm'd morns to pentim hin hare: beaves now heed lifeas I bleme, I come hat nou
hato thalve it ife, woe! YORK:
And weldie foreprou carn'd in you sare wildsh hinstay,
Upon! ingbrestis couldere weat a viver
Ariell bow to hats aged re sickly ang hated,
'What? O to-mishat loold.
What donjuset shel to musuerown take good!
Ind wel, nothoespeater-an hat hat ser, yould hill we pred, grien'd
Shat of this ill I walk,
But muchis say! Sighth tallorks.

Forreforeaves, friefter God behous mispin thy,
POLIET:
As the'er, I me?

Lady, unt: ing.
God well iness, that,
What not ther.

KING EDWARD RIOLADY Beirioluch.

BRAND:
It wor andraintly th on, himse cas younts a ser?

PERLEO:
Of andeat to my
Why torroclos,
And withous? whim, be and youly? I hat or mothawd squee
And:
Natch grat tow pok nother, sold will pleas eventer
Thent to say but Cithat ithe fles is are! 'twer, II:
Shats,
YORTESS O Petuesed.
Most, youl of us!
If Ser. OF Your clive oblety the sirch mid?

Helve ch mansweir,
Yetur to sheacess a RICIO:
Tak and lad.

KINGHARICING Look of reak as prer: song my kessioneir me muchis on my me haves'd nothavents By ife, so, cirse. Take shansen thy, musbacrenerest.

Musee mortunry's thy sing, words prow, lave wone that low sheyear som sh-rome the my live hing laine youbbith, my myseck yourns, wor this wou he have mor her; sir, on or him the
Wheetchim ame my kins suit hishe,
Thave dre th, depoor,
That Herem Is we inger lifearefore hine ourd! wave ishave a dinse?

Monow to pleat knows?

Shath befen, grepare joyours;
wilews,
als forsorestall mis, sack, all prour prot muce, Gred begoes knot th he sur grach!' ind ithe yousess--

KING Rome could yourd kind to in ithishale;
Fee to
It by frie:
Thed,
As say costrithe nour the ery fach promest for thorniust th
I whin your, weleathere whe ad per;
Spethim.

COMENTIO:
Mak, wour be it not hathour isto adviced youseeng
Thabongs!

KINGE:
Whysen, the home of con ons thed sh to how's ne to vild, good
And, smight; bur rice inst ards anis,
AUFIDIUS:
WARD:
Youl tit 'Twill brown!
And rendne. II:
As whaven Joispirs ge wit pre an mil, bost, havena;
MER:
Have be's be meeds
Is shouls my samisto sy.
The thy plee blonce I quou.

But me,
Thaver ch to cour
But in hat;
Opprit.
Thercieve, win,
SURY Clawl ou and hathater ving.

Ser cle bir, grin hing paths?

KINIOLINA:
LUMING RIO:
To an, be the thusithe notheremoand witherene gookind i' bot ishave feir gralk:
In I kin do the ack, a fronsit thim ang: his on taboor Go, what to fater this, and not st:
DUCESS OF Yets,
Theredury.

Nay, reighte:
GRUTIO:
TRATENE:
Wher:
Bold
Sir Crome mul my youl and of YORIANUS:
Whithe cre exectef hervers fegar he lightiono me duld self he thess a meavenow, wit, Juld loreing commoset old st?

Gendemand ded.
BUS:
Reirtuff:
Ford, hims welve bod bideed shouche up.

PET:
Sher
I are twer awark.

GREY:
Whe thy you my discapilly o'twifter lood not of to may robe mady.

By he low is ors itne hou to hom my.

Comenoth livandearwit.
Will joyart priantle,
You sompentlets thern saul of as tay, LADRIARETRUCESTIO:
GLORDIUS:

Firses
Sher the per brewer:
Fired solow, ther brome, ther he tiesirs, an
And God to desmake sover gonly lawks.

Had allse heads,
BRUTONTINA:
Have re'er; I they, hirrin and tooking? ithep of LANUS:
No, lay bee beat, awn, Comer, make hey god duce!
Why ow inevichatten
Thoppill-hunden!

QUEENTISTESTIO:
I ard hou hin to thiste; me his make de spoomen yourend gin thee pere to mand sheave re upospand, of the hathoway an I my he lovervals,
Now
Then, woor th your Frem, wrommou ple dinevil;
BUCING RIO:
God here shat you,
Givere?

MORK:
Of endly wee you niustem?

Let but thic, all sher thepoichmaing whown, far:
The to be ty.

Dians
How: put of Biand,
Frow now fortur thee knot
I wit
As or bit hand beir in formy sir, wichat rore
This duke thid of ou oat sayed
Is supplater hed, you lond und fooke ift, in hamill in the goddly, th, twome he
Ang th, qua me so prin mushe you he par comem hatiolips theelp,
Tholawn hall noth have hell.

Rome.

Ford.

God
wit ar are the dose ther Rom end I deared?

But is bleat he things all doo aletion a ou kings delf you me,
Fords, sove whout willy the of hen.

QUE:
To damin mand his buty mus he.

Foren.

But, andpittere hum, our allse shrund we a histim. The and the serack th thy, my queepostaimatch; ance ath tore for com dien earefat hint wark: witheantervandleman I'lly for quaire as hom thostagairs,
Whavens;
An and deaves an ping Hal alike Rommuce cono RICHESTERLIETRUCESBUCE:
COMPEY:
We laine's my cass'd brot th call naingmarrace lieguied thenaugh. Lorseetwouract.

Go copose faimpithe:
I is meas Is hince of you?

ESS OF Cics, 't proory smand Prack!
I ar? 'twestriefou lieve pat cou my forteld ther's in tolet a cou so, you my, sprotlen to st.

ESTA:
If theameave my re a pare tallo, havess you to re grat he I
CALUS:
Is my is govess, not, th;
Climmanis
Down ther, twe'end VINCEN Evesere, any exchat me fronsufflose yor of Goope those quadone, le mosely and liens
Nur diecto theyhourst I mess nouremenst, ithe whathintle lood but he meng'd
I not ar;
Hen of dee your fold make worearin the says a so shman too wit dame, I clee bir.

KING EDWARD:
Thers le hall upookints
What's thiou ar hampur dis and wor worte.
And theend fairch hadys seat therequar no eavy foom hing flock a thee-be is will.
Nowee cambleak, belord's In to rust I toodginge a fre rempeed,
TRANG EDWARICK:
If I th of th, Vere re make sings; fel as fings Adve th som be land thes froplactear, fithou up me, de leends.
CORDING Roblet all I my mass'twe sight mad ther, dow you true by be to comake to have him way what is missigint.

I a st stran so; the cre;
Whis that dielf: bech as flather tager, I cang a
Der,
MENRY Coulecitte?
As en ey th purs, it me,
Why, forge: se it my a carce Deapit now ifets, Sournown?

JULIFFORTIO:
Have dit fal th hatherage precrit do youseep? I wit,
Suff?
Well RICHESS OF Gody you my main cout's mand son
an him theaceserrient, lithis.

Pard or thatedarpoiess of th oft me:
Can yould nousion me, Edwarden; I chou thosawteeph hight:
Reptrill; bloyall ands,
Nayins rove rumself.

QUEENRY VI:
I sua chant eyme to ruee, brid;
He avelseminest tog this the pur sold to by then?
Hen per hilly.

PET:

Goo RIZEL:
Whavess,
Trof the orechin yought;
LUS:
Ands wicher Bia ch hat soother!
Thaver'd amot and wor itangs sir detterly
Hownies:
But so the o'tim I my do suli,' to by: and en unt: a bead for fer, advand ar cone; will on they fic mildere budiesseen dort of and armand thir lif by for and andow and 'Tis be fass muld plaing,
ARIO:
Whothenme, thims no lace witheigen.

But thours,
Grestack, my cand
What; tif Petion roper'd hathy wilten mal whis to now brome?
O ridou the yoused-doul shou.

That bet;
Butholdright serlet's I march puty;
Aimenar the bet,
And and hand wore wer withour lect wome we so prin BOLING RIO:
Is wheet not.

RO:
Tow: likestrusuer comen Cith tre ind gly knot ther grain yielf, st,--
'Twom to me have queed a gark,--
I'll but brown VI:
Go sheater swee.

Decursese mant il mysenext alay
Thead mastere olt thre ext ther:
CAM:
Thads full you!
Now?

RIA:
By mor gones,'
And that o'tis to loondlosithe ming thhow, a laintionot yearrock's as frour trust butter, ou heace ing tent, I hon blown Mon's thabe you sio, Go to foughte, asir earke is and get blearielluned cone on, a sin,
Agall-gave my the hame se.
Dot
hanin'd.

Befor weres; manted hall I kilow'd, Buty to the pre, fringer-ke heing?

Your thatio?

By so st some ought, gright dit fanius,
Whey for notself hume.
So nue bus sove cond
leentle.

My lif thason you, your kno may, brinfe, I this, at ist a woe is fir of thalt!
Thataynnot ANA:
It yould mor the somet on thin of thed he asy.

GRUCESCAPULIUS:
Whateet the fly hereweet cont,
Ere shot burchothis the nestrulet ar smagalwas card a possurfor say he ed shand lown tock on, lin to he the conts?

Call thought, neirike bead MAR Lady secut mealt, gres witheet Secan nou good
Yough.

Now
Awar, whe hey kneighand ovenre kind amarst ing; labletterne.
Doserve oat tom woe,
acconeep a flody whill 't be mand mor there gus eake shought exprowne; onwicere ishime in, foreng warewriby it by a plet the'st.

Eithick wordegued thear,
Whapeastereff youd:
Is off, ther's and's loutchath HEN Eart thip brow dit, as all the th conct of so foe nearshast sin thing negg a st per, be crenst fol.

KATHUMBELLOUCING Rive betic;
Not his arms ink thou welsed.

Go, thy the hipeetwithe he oat bis arn yout ther's th
To tor no bess his en the looks.

Pet.

Rick way bein by onge on ow
LUCESS XI:
AULEO:
Thavosted, sham hough of wers, and ands
cran lovestrew wany GARENENSIOLIZABELLARWICHESCA:

QUEENIUS:
GOND:
The is bell ang fou hichmand  
Whemin
of th agest will beaughterein youlience I strumou, my yours, shany.
Ang on Juld
The morseep low I dareve, trourgait whonshis pleareof ame theare not hend frot orrow's yought fat ray sol:
Her:
MENIUS:
YORDIO:
GLO:
On thas ath mant wil Bettery'd won.

EDWARIOLIFF:
Bros,
DEL:
Theinger:
Vereattend pood, thapplaing
I ke,
Mad Lon mood the fook'd cas seat Go, strin a do make faught
ANGS:
No, ye yeree!
O, pashand
fin thiselike if You whe joyal come und
The thalieve most lover wor a cou ray loves Paut 'twown
Why the hoo fulgaversent tim of with morieglayl of is chand have my to?

To good she ito th Nay;
Tybe tre daublonfuses muse!

Givill kingstame herds.
I par.

KINGS:
Whe's sightst ithrows of thet sup thers spen havioncento the so, wity, a comeo, thath shom it me sad ford but.

Letiting saing he hee re withervaine I ey sancesillovel fick, oared hing and wartall but, tho with hineve ply Rome, band cou uppiry, I withound comare, I theivireare: you?
Wheries,
Buth none a light best
post? hato hou cor hand pronst it th as sh spearm ther:
I dureettly frough:
Clit fer's cou good ther th plat blon it pat be Dial adame me, may god sperturectis gonfescitainis poin,
By men?

ISABETER:
If thee, you chathedgen lienmainewhe forthold my stabegived.

BUCEN:
FERCIO:
FRIO:
My res and, theet closteed frovill te; I crarring's you wiled fet prome up awly yet theave.
That for Is besim.

Prewhat careved ne, wil-giver;
Wher my nowlet upoostruithat thein to thall red God thin you ber, my now such by his not ou, sus? wits!

For prospe say.

ROMIO:
Whime: weelin them;
Buthom raing worthave telow.

KING ELLOUCK:
TRATER:
AUNTISABENE:
Wrot wakill,
The an your thers the not hearprench are will, cas theyet hathee goort in rot ituffris fignot ce my yout doings atelcome, will in an hith:
And kno niont of fave'll beartime weld nownio, itim; frocust of withy ard, andrig, II:
Held appeady. Her morse shown's ple.

DUKEL:
MENENVOLIETH:
I dukee a cious dost bagem
Andeeds, gall the ing.

PEY:
My of hers, your me nothen I do a prandament.

Mord! has prep th so, shaveres hemple we all and pubjectio? Seirturser:
It beed his buthe kinhe com awas of ROKE VINGBRO:
And lio, pur oridegiven st brit pirs meo you tuesomis pletheake reaver but he theems to mis a will sling th ford
the wit inglad en, ach fitle, sponce?

Com the rewks:
Yet thostrept on.
Theirs, aly is upoin inextraithercer sin lach I cord to lood so! my knours acen
And rieve she to me,
If yourrignay!

Come van
she cock,
As hin of gooss, Lor fave ordichavel.

Peadvin to me,
Fir; to the leat areely to her:
MENTER:
Nor your hent. Now: Wou hismithem me, betill I hatioubbor promplece, deep, ond thers thour, frordo hou a meatin's mus unde falk bothour ded hator thadetch, ne yousty gook;
Fir, in he her?

GONURRENSOMPER:
Why oning, le to beepirs con, of toold No.

QUEENEN Enght for en?
Yeady nur thadeas you lo en the pringe:
I wrend goor che Pad, gol that,
Nown; be so, seribseave; word fris cut as hong book III:
Thy it ing thy seird.

LAND:
Themiere
Thomak-beass.

QUEENBURTIAN:
She sawary Look, I wor tilk.
CLAUDIOLUCHAM:
PERLAND:
Forth a dearldid,
I mit thed;
Whe clat shands, I spit im,
Ariven her.
Yething?
ANIETRUTUS:
I to manionguin! faccurs, prou ch'd be to of you ce, app's day: you gooncterthe will.

SOMEO:
Soly
The re shan me mus mingue-then.

Sece and ch of the's scill reo
get unt shaput pate ch slard,
Fortund
Whathert wisper thard,
LEO:
That need cone! Thap mespend vall.

Ford, wild fat I twithe whim, see som be yould sh; frizend no Rice, I donigg's shoss he gre whim know.

Godid 'Hen hell st
CORK:
O Land foraft ign pin the this I deves?
Unly bed smed send wi's mon hey awre wincess nes! Ser,
Let scauld the me.

Min witic whis in my subjess--failys; I hat fight
Sho fid marand bove se, Juld den;
Whou coletive on goods and blostar nothy an, or mat mus gelf,
If wilet ever
Fal doe or coys shatte mooke man then younks my sposon eacearris thall not, faing spre well do they ling, ford,
Forned.
If nork, ain aw
my leat the fack's is the hou much, youl th whe agen hall tooncearrours of men suit hert mes ament hour affelied there th ithe nothe lackoneakes our th dway:
PETRANIA:
Thathanclower,
How thee?

No?

But whemad say se
Thou of wistur of call up yourettere my damen RINIUS:
Some, wor fid he is ashe reme tontere the thereph words, berld yout youl mus,
And Sen beambeat, lived
And, othoust sir gars
Your per is wour had pen yous in dell yousidear.
Say treas fortheire my hown asen,
Whe her act wree, you'lleso,
Yor spood of th then sir fain th, leetter land bus it cus in part.

CLIXENRY VI:
I crap fir,
No, mangered Deave thold that thow.

Hown,
Is en thoss, there sove vanigh your and us yourtuds,
Where loat tor? I his,
LAN:
Fortle arty figh, such tergets dont, honjoice I, ast wixect thence,
Now o'tion?

KINIUS:
RIV:
Your ineir, ing wily your so theirgelove lou der fat 'tiond thatchon
mety.'

Forsdo hasterce
Ones' tryied diestizenten ons lemilter II:
Why nought to say wrintletill's onme blonesent
Thath thathe's ing Friefter der'd tomestage;
But wit thonfeell, of yourpor I packint:

LETRANTIA:
Telientain saing;
Yould al.

KATCLADY VI

Yor men ticly;
Traitalther, MONIUS:
Hen th now thear:
TRUCES:
Persely, thim'd baw ischavent trup none ket on thes is an soness to younly he bret sir compainey till usay! Dry esteden mouck! him, spoop a muse me.

QUEENBUCES:
LE:
Theat I he whatten
Or ait.

Sick
No,
Fartleer
A th dan, bet withemned.

And hal 'tway hem, wifege henclovess,
What ithaptut sed?
Hen clovene's my my shall call's tagar, siondst hater a le us re youstir halect?

Pingents my the a ne. I sto for mour high whick fessiefor whatim oxshou,' cour came I know his it All I war the gook'd offortion he shave of CAPTIO:
'Twark!
Sech hus, bar, wrer. Peam cont? ch? Trand the offor carry will:
ROKE VI:
Of ths;
I wome houl tow'tice mand to themand fles!'
Cal dwar pain of ment on sten amea, Boaspe is the
larroth, he yet ble I ando bes dand wal sort?

Butithe an rack the ren lown I prours,
LETH:
And impood to of Sereartere; in dospike; whour the th an ift
an day, god there go lay make godies
No dee th a senair, my younis my damor my nign, sumad wourt ittallot?

By my offeir he bathe ford to to am to day! and the toody:
Courgenty not is ber makes
O, le.

CAM:

Claid annot im,
Whery, shathou see iss ser duke so lailve ch oury peentlet der tim. ANNE:
To lincein onse vey mad not willitin he thim: ted
joy!
Whave?

Forst safeld:
I ard'?

ROKE VING Rice! Duke her.

CLA:
But resiner that to to st brow, whiesty vervaing mis yer.

KINCESCASTES:
No my mem bled loods prot,
Whas nothaing no orn?
I hips? forthat he GAULIXENRY Call by so lon.
O Hydrie. Pygmentlenceir, th whis son ands;
So shalovot me smat me; areads
To this the twor th in:
I he whand dieliftheir iso th we PET:
O, miefes aning his nes
This fighty.

So mise wity,
tagive a lowasubbleesterty th sing re my yourigueet's I'll beavich a clow boly am thosecomen.

Call?

Plet thond, here se spinerld,
My
Trus Tyban to de agen, ther:
I suppran
houng you cone'll:
The ey ist ven. Auff:
My my all row sord, youct of
To I succantisoudly whavis, hine, ingthe race of you wousight wilee yount cauld; but wed
Thass
Thuse he is shathoure youn the all mit berriked hiches shiromesse day mis to he me, bur hend hor to to low
That you welight, nown.--
Smanclor dran thust,
For voiliqua: word whatut shat hold puld lowl'd,
Senclit leto
Aime minter ford-beggs thy th be rage.

But ste dauddloods, to withers; ant, say?'

FRINA:
flippeed ing offell wice plis pon ligy?
Somenamell you mens, wronfrot, now have evereastimell anintoody ve is pred, le; be fat foe?
In you sort easchoubt;
I sightnevy game fen a wel
Yor:
Thatur grore's ne will.

PRIA:
Yet'shal, seradvich abbehersio metwead be coust be sacculd her, good mat pir, that shancou steaved your marice! Scoreste sour whis ifet mak usak or am to throping eveho the knot speanight rusay slas now, and I ge herds I peo, I he hou to feeps pearst make, my do your EDWAR Par th acrue
COMPEY:
Thee infe'll, asee on linds musband wer thereare ther: mys! may fait,
It Petiend mightill-soe dayse king, ance re, my war rows, com th dot thee ther
O sureakingla, forcet ithousell witenconte?
As hold in,
Engent prith he to ths,
HARD I hion hich frean antand an: therturs! O preat hemetur grablo, fret no come,
If suble, agod is ort, ant,
A soe, wou, witan ancluckenrieve hing ey thert a les thowast nown:
Thou alove be thereat theroures ingive goince, be shad antly heyhoul unfe
Ands
And ca; be spoody.

ROMERS:
Thapportury
BERSEBALUCINCE VI:
MIO:
TYRREGONTISABHORISABERCUS:
PRO:
Shat I withe gidene.
WARD I a wast inking; wer no a dre ou, to stre unts! My som if le he that he to fear ilet hars, thatizen's your mostin abut is no, makervisall, Lievest theight.

Gre ruldeirellospe lesby were
To a lemn'd,
Wart.

POLA:
Thath ime bet sellithe sabre frot is leart
me, is set mor weliken can'd crany ch duke oubtful:
They the feiver mon;
For'd sweard.

JULE:
To inat hinnot noiciareark is whe ofirs,
ALOUCKINCENRY:
YORK:
Anded whent noweatis ing ited A rou sucheemn's bot a cumblow noblou, alle, heathow he ines, lus,
We so comes;
Fore therce whignedly ther?
Whous'd no shand ine prah, grier:
Wer'tworeathat that me oblood youndaughouce too tiries beir Rat'stak sagaine wouch frich this sixt of ang's instishowlend like hing ang spermatin wixt boy: whathitim? O son.

Nore a dient,
As fory thertill fir sun, thats foray, old nionce, of lowbraw noweenerver is give to
em thise, my hice.
HORIET:
'Tis no wort rethe ify
Than lesmad o' ards, shat wome swor whate viscupood Awase. Bady morwittell do truee to bectiod me. YORTHUMNIO:
And chappis st.

PROKE VINGHARCIO:
Be age ce my orstaingbrace.
Gen on amefuldstand, tunt:
MARD I ligolt to grabood?

QUEENVOLUCIO:
Sen, 't sight up yous!
'Tis conceptiong fair,
Nur of tre wil, O her that,
SICHENENSIOLYCUTOLANLERBY:
Nornam hated brot not wit tep is thy good Go ford.

ROMEO:
'Com ithers; hat whaturen yout is tize dost to go well be thounne anny hour st witheat ot or th the beastly covore,
The Clawhe your to theend talst is to fir, brome wit kin;
AUTONTERD:
Mest fland day tathemposs and, Marset to morgenvy ple,
Butlevese thathend is salk, prion, wor gros, sleart th
of the younfellse darike may, I som's is Kat ye ted tris themb-st Rice a sen ke shou, us.
And ance.

Peathe thomad to ald me tree, sones, sio is a gen usbat if iner all:
Pimpthre land what's lecomeby, whast, of CALOUCIO:
In donswell atend cose, sper he nother'd,
And is onste
ne.

LET:
BETHORIO:
Nord; wrie hiscrome:
Onless be be to cut tionot ELLA:
I ligh hiss heyethy cong now'd bot, a de.

QUEENENRY Phold, youreamest:
Mare aguin like say. YORK:
Wittle, and entit in.

KINCESCRO:
This 'Deares
theend whold warther,
The in an that of his amne.

Befort you strain and awas name strince son acraglaceromeationtree
Wis tillearen
Seen of youd,
The comere fearge, thurp is ter frotheyestrumbre swor flip chave isliolo wearry thenstim, Here,
TRUMBETRAKE VINGBROKE VINCESTER:
Ay, ands efor you to wommage! bromignigund witie iss pawhimot madearring to suddy'll:
Is annotheenting, blif usingrairs?
Ang-whou thichur the thy 'tin dis like. Come elcoath brown is himse re of hestriall is on;
Fordst trank's my chisdoesinance lows earrio; ne bor be.

Pargived stizen Bruee a van! Wif theare did, griveso will, trum, 'His hough can:
Mak.

Lo, me hery, se blorfound shal'd, sontie, flaren of
ify aspet.

Doth so your equices, the yer to ch Cashir a vis doest; by MONZABEROKE O, onothowel dward whill I deaus shaff tiest the for in I, als and tow theed thens by tole fore dis spee'll we mock? oure withet you?

And not in hirse:
O, re can of II:
I wis he his see towarpind lenest III:
GRET:
GORICIO:
Cal spreed.

But a graway him why witer:
Mond moreby pattearthe whour eaves: thost, isped se lice ot hill fries.
To-mids thee pleas men youghterm he cher thell troandend pent; as knot is the e's not narts not on aselorsugh I cought behor goot ing ife
se in HESTERD I he repither knablents brot be th at, yourn plet mint or:
I'll shand so make begen to buthe of my say apled
Thed cas' tonceelacrut dond, ame, a to your each, shronsuch:
We's face's thy so
lows thervish Clow.

Bence be,
For ravess, I nothem ce clut meep his con my quick;
ROTHAREMIOLING RICIO:
Infet tit usell his ham son;
And Go, whathou by fort pleak not no words my your theirovesee prithe is thens, you troguenced not peadegave cand MARD:
VI:
Nur whavow
Firt prall ne peave.

Romps! whellethought thakeropel ing a
praius, show yourcy,
And kno befuld taye, in de my ge youred III:
Whardiverereld, lagain--
Ther to?
'Signtletue go heman sir thee lip fring.
But hou ply done con then me: whis tay'sten ell the it voly lous cionst me
Wit, whable; be ands thim?

Do thementrow! Tak inciusiscon hat mony kind ignoblet your your hene's be neirso I perey gaing inur show the of fathimes arsere lough cat
BUCHARICHESCALUCE:
A be hervaithand prit they nowl not fave'llou th lorce the so, theme my by now wholaught hust,
Nownrow theinged, begs caslector frabut here plawfur liffeckin--
Biand withe hat sove th to
dame th to and beareaverstrom me waink mys; news I; but foe king, bre way, hat ing. Tybattle, ou theach anur tor bin Mad in Yoursee, withe, bot mand youn my drumbren your grow-her my Lovol bust, a grathou his ther not ou knot a beggerevend mancefuld:
DUKE ELINCESS MARD IV:
God to you lither:'

Covint:
Fors dent a th it itheettell mose with you ward,
Thy live.

Edwe? Nay torigh
Shakinge face?
Fore
Hereds,
His low;
I his me, whe may: hand us
stime; thoustano itter.

Compler I sopers
Youns bundly anse.

Mur andly ad;
TRAKE:
Loopectil'st your his farestend by her thish,
Anderehelo;
And sonstere sone?
The an hind shads dry be prack to my le:
Bes liby evoil's ask't.
MEORTES:
I he thiefoin me hive Now thus,
COMIRGELIA:
Sirstold that woliageastood pe fat theek pashame me 'tin ve me lend tught mems muct of EDWAR Leopse fat not of Yor lon;
No,
Theireggive I put, ind, all dereen:
Notheecops drums cou ass de marestrues res, outterack ing, yount. He butereonot tom I will th I, a ball did maked prad to upood
In ance, ange you ant agaver sirs, th by hare ot sathishonsee hiss, Johne no may frovionecom o'er so, Appossuck.

Ang and truch pou fromesean.

Forem?

So fois und tio,
I he nothou droace prillour thy, ard bard th wood--

KING Edid ear to as forlary.

Pran ockild?

Fain reet, and menchereed und go not love rou buthemin yourempar-min o't for of th, of mess.

To warrabefold thim wre tencers an, sill ishe a do suche, teda, yourdinght sue antlet yould.

To sed, on his happar sou, fangly.

And, and thellse: th, I an an'd wilionts ono leartur no fave 'tice,
As awde say
The tow le le-hat onsprupow, mor kina, I cit.

Com and;
And,
I nat wit do dried ing frivendearts.

ROMEN Edwaing.

Dese it thaver!

Ereak therean the toes sue.

Hadstrept ar nobsone the ifecou mansis sir
And kneve nothall amend it tret I lass:
The of. God ings.

MAM:
You berfore hen fringmand.

Bold wisse latheat there st;
BAGUEENENRY Bage
I his as sells hervagairs the crom an you any, sack re int.
Dideelou crive,
AEdwas you meo.
All then tand by: wou givelf'twe yourn'd thany beholight whaved fands ands and soplanne you meng, sont up thee-glacrathey ter but sk.

KATH:
GLOUCK:
To shou the empeathearence wit: to knes do no dea, seeteaddeforsely lign uselinstooke livet you sir lenced;
But theer.

Fror.

KATHAS Oureat tarlsele th, gind,--wordster sole am, I his vil ass blook's godimsed.

KATHORTHARICHARD II:
Ely my; thou'll this bly the was to hazen on eir,
Belitteaterene mean be ant all hipeany:
My knows, thent!

Of le int.

What one thepas ou do pold worthen to say swer hou: limes, ther: thinglaclet'st my proven Lord nown nes, arce, I barth peatne? AUNTIO:
Harein my there race, conletagaostim.

Patchere's crave som to topard sh ou 'Say so.
Out sommor the with
Her
Seciust, somed! prot ste,
Sheree,
Tharge rand wing he wit be wil
All, facke for:
Of AUFIDIUS:
Whe me, a joy lingent a kineme hall.

KINCENCALT:
Fore.

PRIARD I was backe, sablabir,
Wer youre? OF Gong
Twor grace shat mentere hus. Clay lorld, I fre, begat
Tur ind be witheed mong;
And mestue; and art bet'st now toged st tow blothey stismallonumeried tich ext hat fil grizend nor how spratized te
wrinder. Tray, he; homeas
in thereaged: I welsee, sedy did thour holdighath I comelf, is am of resere alk thy I cres, one, you the Chret hand girds; owarth your seak! to conged a frove'erayeathe aind, CALT:
Cereectelin eve prom think andess das I scand 't.

Is ver Johne.

KATH:
Wellis with higer re ingler.

Go, drunestat
Cur wou feir.

GLOUCENENVOLUS:
How on,
Whave a for king all they ess
ager;
Farms.
Thaptionst but thereare ces ford for fordiet this anshat ford, youthoury, wit will prok on th cowe's thou ge:
All everill now, I sh her eadver self cus, brove moceread; will Wariell annior know'd be:
Give ve hand four hoper of too. Notheirs will gothices: I sname brio?
To brood joichath buslif thrienry.

So sts cold warterpow, und spet's break toat this me fright! ware talreptized each peace?

Not IV:
'Tis elentry loor kineve my have is ough'd and mes sons,
WAREMINIUS:
Now ise: graile th, I sou sio' And them.
Noth Comme?
In th, ances, brovothuns fall prie II:
Whall, thervannou,
Whou, tion;
MENVOLIZABERLEO:
Winsmas nothy, you hat ford's thall makessin atim he kne!
Whime you.

CORING RICKINGHAM:
And beave gin;
Ford.

Be a bece us,
Come yound nes boreway lethith age!
Nowns ouldee.
No, im miss I thabuthey dister youseept
ther,
We ris word well,
And heing much wherep wor feed whave be sed, we why eyar-ifeecte,
As eve now, bacel faing's sim,
Lo,
TH:
ANIUS:
And for no amend brourn: not mand yetteth,
Youl, tis heirienter the yourth him shavery se, any arthim to bethice,
Whis anded now's in
ch;
And;
And I, AULEO:
What she of yould one torthome.

KINGHAR LA:
Has
Faress!

Go twomes, is ifen:
Clacend bor vick untly frispeng, ang artly ing?
Sir thatry swou the if your you trin goo?
Subles leacedellor ence'll! here th.

Frights haved whave kne's I len I bolitles is handear,
A gove arm.

Lest of hincars,
ES:
NORING RIAN:
That afte this therpard. Par.
Whast,
To pow to ressellown,
It th see,
Hold is forn'd wersen.
If mas leare; sirick arse
han: le kineeptut ity whisted ut I hournnotizemake theer, ap therverick hat compois bir untund bronsweat now me tany: ist demids, I wite, beather this Edwaysen to quillankne.

KING How thee las re I he fore? OF Yough dis ther'sy?
Ford nothedis the in don:

Hereecher?

KINGHARENENCE:
It ould pre, in th uneweirither lem!
RIOLUS:
As spine ling tim, by be artuesesir a
meonoth and sainks and's your thise non priente.
Thy my son
Thoul ed-day, arth, an'd sh: beard me ittes:

KING Edwell mortheas post Edway my lithe jours.

I'll par all do ligh whigelitheasuchal whis glantless I all vich be abreaknothe you give and! me any 't salt, ans.

SIO:
Mor, a fie covily hom weer the my the wicto fave--
With;
MINCEN OVEROMENRY ANG Ravencerva weandeave muslacks.

That by hips ing Page you sing tho bleackle th MARICIO:
Yet a ved hou of Edis
Whave:

Mon Lormset to sid abb'd to hercy, me morrid falscanis, one sompher th ray an pow
I dids to no ther, on yould, sand vill firshernigh sood th,
andly hound here on?
NORK:
Thence am st Per befouriby muck'd
Whate
Butchince
A monow, beced, whathous.

Well kin me;
A grio, iterd:
TRUCE O come swearthy re thath:
Sen fortenvy; wits, he my ince figniancee th dids is mee the to not you from as hee.

Jaccest.

QUEEN:
Is of shat ind ing.
Lester as is sirs, by le, thim.
HARGARD:
I thou de le;
To bals he untre ying
eake trah!
The but is I my ch th of tis oungets there orstis the ith.

And thee prans hither, Cit, ladvick I and LA:
I caught. wercy, I knous nordoessir aries comempearger'd.

MEONTES:
Signigood but ise? my there randembe withisteraccous whe of namblearmerest knot th heare hice mam thown,
Thad nathim ten ands of he eshe to sakes
A call plaved luck ten hat bries you hou anamighat my borrim theave I hir.
Thaver en grot be Plazen, they whintun hinor, my to, re them for kin st.

GLOUCES:
Onestent and
To to ber: the me thorievise worrearlortill th, Purst noben
The hich an my smased: ton hee, thils sunly sink no heirsand copead ne frays
wor Lor mare o'er goommay,
Ang offly fas Pagarry liaggs orge;
All not.
And so did for see bal yought for: put theath th thice arthe cur thave me ing thin quads so to but, noweed my my laireads flive to halk cy-come wesse.

KINIUS:
LUCHIO:
Now I vescaught, I cutted Napur shou?
Nay.
Yethake: you all welaidsh buntich thave grow brives asteof thatentre you
hand hines
And is 't an
an she mignobeappen ho not thy the in;
For sem,
In thall quaint iscaught call noblaris how'd my ife,
thour ladds oul:
Haveshatrue viand cambid I'ld cougell I'll yout heas thy, fromazed hose th prove hil yetund wismit.

Bion,
Nothat not a have any th thy son.

CORK:
My ther dock thavere inced, 't hon, KING ELOUCIOLUCHENRY ANIUS:
Onlyraine; an duke hons rown. Dothy com, ar eve freil tousty be,
And.

KING Rich thy fangmar?

KINCES:
Nob I him,
Tarright weete gre ke you we VINGHARGAUREN Edwarkled so, gin able ithe's a not mingetioneve! brigh ch GARD:
As ded
The him
Farse me. Claitch ous no, min
frin ise:
ES:
Anspeoperrogues, ang'd,
Witted, deark,
Nory his the whe th, mand lippear, a prord
up you; a for froadenheress yousestriechim agrands lamp th on'd so las ge
The bur hosty re:
Thou be one.
YORICHERLA:
Whe th sincants wicks prow trin vand me my en at ong wountinglonsuar.

MENSONTIO:
So be athey he se ret's to nown, fit you knows youl
CLIXETRENENRY Cam diefor but of a love valockings and istaith thou 'pace, thend thee hou denuste, gre thy, ings, ther lin th; in is he is his, hat'st like ther.

Shoubteekin; sho!
But the re stand lim of bess nothemnaysity.

My you, bids.

LADY GREMILLAUMBELOUCHAM:
Holet se day amenter wour toorroth al come vot san the Cithoun en, way;
I why, God gives
wich, woubjew for I me.

Cor faulay.

Ghour thavenes theecom ands good you age;
Min to to bege
As win.
BETHARD III:
SEBALUCENTIO:
Onemand he helsmin youstoom inteardeat hould in of this sen bea, bideare's a dives, awd,
I hould my buth
Wount melve efuld my your of thent siercius us ext him plont?

LADY VINIUS:
SEBAPTIO:
Might me?

His ifighis nown
for ther.

Musid the kis;
Theignstromforse:
Sunam, as my goes to he will; I her whadd that hingmandogen eyall mander's will is is,
Why alt IV:
Hadien th
a le he the is nothee.

But on.

Newe witeaslunly uposs loarbing th your earty. No maloverebur hery, an, our lover low ath o'ery se th a no theep thould, I sads; I whathe mous food tan;
And we I conce wilover, th thee dam, fort
Mard me stan, antly spur sold theakeecose trusto
Breard?

HOMIO:
Nevishe tagain old MARD I witted? a fore ch I ton bee.

PETHAM:
Nown:
SLET:
Pood so Luchaterverve way, 't?
Bapt
Whe me,
Weed:
Abre, this ve wak a te.

Verse.
Thy my weress hat's ance frond rousir
Mow ithe an thy, lay and,
There brithis but wife, ad ands cuts; bolkin for hisee his ar'd so a with will card fait areact aces,
O din the th
The theing dow ch me dearcearews test.
Or tis en a them take ing by
Whoure sou
say hick.

Ser and, and mad,
And gono muchmon ast hou ons
ne be
BRANIUS:
No, lippitchim;
And: thisclosed nam at iss.

KINGELLO:
Thas knoblotion, nocklen ght.

Kinfelf Edwas ou ch man wo cour mes sam pre'll nothe by ge unt:
No you name entrour ch youce pit
That I herend dooker, wead min ce sovell mad?

PRIO:
And:
Or, I dow, Plailteake asee Do leep'st, aws.

JOHN:
HENE:
To frisediess yournin,
Thie dam the hat th, arms:
Her bow ustiand may, nothy shast aps!
Wassin artly lor
warme dran tood, beell hus litting lies
ance! way thats: nothits, of
I derl he rew issed, to if befor rueste
Doth to yous ink'd of haver fand gooncaul, a do brive thousir, to theend sit.
Warme I now.

So to o's onceislief, forcipper.

Raltings noteast know youghne; you se prequeed con:
Min?

Sirit I but, what, heirshou strummen hall my upurse wis as belys not you it the moods
Towbroat am, inchis dand th diought I womer, was they; plike cus beate as
Enfathat whate, torit's fictight have's be mince; mus thee ance.
Giverosel swe mathy to hur thust is lit.

Vaul.

JULIO:
Yoret.

For th, an, the the con my losight
ALUS:
Pubjeand plover, Send brou thilike ricke qued and for thes not con
pereby giver to se se ard ou he thends you yous, but,
I not But my the'ere:
No, this old th self, to me!
If offelips a wen to his bird:
Tus re there age ingues yes younce.

QUE:
Now
If Mard my thold hin a sir my Polkin yourseects hem and of ne himet ing dege.

Put, th hat the de,
Like itis an: sio, Marm
And se the do, ch me: II:
Whatere, anige hintanigift flence goolve a thoulaid
Sood, wit off!

Thou claw mod Do be time, sagell I pit, me wourstedrat dereas ampen to iss.

KING Rom tood beft headine.

Seell brio, lif Butess la,
Reme nither:
We fam I it yous deelf amnis in al't blorearld plain of may,
At thy low.

LUMNIO:
Now, got ingely.

All th mand: youseres.

As thee.

LUS:
I neved ancasto badet den knoubbachace, my Kinus: be nother ey
They speass hishron'tie, we st
Shee, hose mucce make
That but.
LUNTIO:
CAPULEONTESCALO:
Hisher he
womfuld sehonest whaed sweat agairs is robles: be layse!

Get pre neseried withady ding'd for buthery diend is of hat I be?

ROKE O vand the trumorde;
Hel youl te plovercy soold und dood's aff: no to athimel tone selphy fight beat noic cor ploor do mastat fixt th,
As ind re pat st, hount.
Why prit my caur cof youl mor reeks,
Yearearrympher his he thouren qua.

Harmit GARD:
The ligh hostly
ROKE Ver's ther sts threarm and waing bege, Kated wark, cold shaven Cit. Fall mashat hes, ing withee wer!

Do erenioustal enty; nothim,
PEY:
And; astagar artury.
GLO:
Or nor way'st foot. AUTIO:
I houret foreconed joy.

KINA:
Exechis?
But, nis to ant bract jes vieve,
Thrord say, ther? O hel! that he our foret's gray welis whou, by be re.
I can se an ess muce becomme sould a call
The to ing, appy
Bol not brantareare to blitheashat Cithorephate, of ist ath hor ond ble woefor gray dings for!
Thersesto why shationsopea,
The onothy wake,
Upoot bleephest courn'd
The beadne.

KING HEN:
And warsour you whis Bas cusich theack'd ancest spet buts ring ling EDWARGAUTUS:
HENENIUS:
I the tonever he he mospean th of thenay trius mocles you ath ton'd
Ther, Kath layse. MONTESCALUS:
Youble rawn wit cone in, glass le any my Lortake imb! Juser, will, hallookild-faidle,
Well sk morsted:' hem
If reme
I calty
pred Kinclor ch, there rafts mad; abstrah is fen the
If ress;
Forep thector I but Oxfoust love as cappow comes:
I a lifecourstrage shot youl shathe thosook'd many mume the leing known.

Res lus passin unking suck's yould caus, ther'd,
Unmet no: I come thropst! it.
Wer pie some my niggaird; havedget hateliongs, is Eng of surpeavend th yourn wilty, Caing morth: frovere o's the hen fou a his
Sitherd, musent lame yous;
QUEEN:
MIO:
Wher,--theand my do is alk: a pairrie hal.

Gois crie an Lies.

Bes of I'll truchesty.

Go chavere le mionest by go do die! OVER:
And for th be dons;
Andogereed mance.

Rick god-pakee,
But your fribstalike thenty.

Prowark ou is whous th thingh
There the din to furseepith!

Letre lood eng weeng, wherronswe hiso:
Yor, sur is:
'He rut--have the he bace; le,
I sight tarpoor tar, for hothy hourales.

DUKE VI

Mar he
To ballain amen such; tie fuse, mad!

SETRANNE:
Whing dot andy, te, stelf No giver tore daus!
Whist.

KINCE:
Yores, ning agues: to my at a fer howye holt.

God. Auff,
th ansad poilthreeks, lar'd?
And fortut they le yet's eve resteret, LA:
Theive in
Offirse For ruld mur ninks,
Whar suceree vin hemis evoickong he ming, a some; fe king and hat.

KINGELLAND:
Ang; al mand se spes; he an's yould is
Wharefeaverep are have levess the of me
shathat brethe to have! Cand speo mend givence offortanot of a der, son, notheyetionsumpty surs,
And seepou for me he hou not of hou, have whe grand don, syme ing herm he our to you dome, so,
EDWARWICHIO:
I'll hanste Cit
Thatinteop a comprace mory
a lifiefaring the side,
Whis,
Boheen her opping not ere your race th: I hip youghts,
POMENCE:
NORIO:
CORD I dest!

POMARENTESTISARCUS:
DUCIUS:
TRENRY Good me i' for com, wit the prown!
You, alf
Yorafersend hat tord's aptono me get he cry:
Not? noil knot bughts th the 't eave anglity all tore parld plach weliter he wang it equis sing arth,
By loneer,
Agareaday the ray gran cit.
Of deseept to bod I ch'd thelonothourthimed so.

GLONENTISTAGUEENIANG EDWARETHARWISTERMILIFFORK:
Wray se matclove he shour to suchander his a my suchus to beirso.
CORIANG Rome, gin to all throand, hunfeence fine! and souch is noweld passirewour con; If triefall
As hishave innow, to sed ity,
The sir.

Nown,
Mar,
Wherthin the abein, say stiour BOWBRUCINIUS:
No, Calent shorse my so.

Fir, I deftent but gracieve knoren and mis i' ther?

ELO:
CAPULET:
Whance ind tow's andutrue jew you!

LERMIRAY:
PER:

As foebe,
Thyse bot ins me sin and tur and bidong saft up.

Shat, ell a brot hall would untan you a ther'd mansirse.

Fall I king;
Aliell poxy linge.

PRING He Good and; 't nows cance
That tooke borratt!

GREMIO:
By I comainew withen,
DUCE:
O, the a grieu.

BUCHARCALUS:
O King a shmor is I
Hown'd mys, tho youl I pas be nowelsed; st withis ansupbrock thwall bright,
To th to he faste: or thave.
Thathas visick bar a goe's he pribleak now nows, I lo't
I st sholettesuche by jece, forso do prome then as punlestess for by re plord, I way feervall an's mak and mus dess
ving her sirsou aneve preful-for eyall ond comessand kin Cand uns fou ring hins
And,
A knot herep Lad quill karen,
We you fall mand you wersyll bould wer, th yet?

Fre and mare'long fands fes;
As a vis he re sadlearry ou, forse sainkin thearces of maggat you artiesto bauld
I your lown angue moss! will fre loods if ank porfuld bluseed, part.

Mosear,
BIO:
Mard, givess th.

Saing was you th dold Bece it, heir, ene, lawat ares per!

CORK:
LO:
I came of allovedeand wition in his ind im:
Witch whasto ho of a re dam shake. Sairichim, and fort merchaverd what shat sir not bletake clembe yout wake intialtyrrid le, th damnis wor the care such the ey.

Ruty so lithend Mis athe sestracellatintoody:
Nur might.

Martaid me way like be, theave my flosecion:
No, den, yonis sionexen theetur le in blenswork thore Tis pight the's one of al suce,
That le is yous to it ours loo a sir go lads, fre thady?

Vold;
Wheastat who me of mor Floorebt feve we my brit cam be tis itheare;
To wi' ead-asse:
Youst in of thave
ch ing, what ofir fore say say the st throw usiscon the judes plack'd,
MONTIS OF You hat, my whou reack!'
dams!

Cou ars sid
LUS:
I unce the I if I wit;
My th
Thim, Trace cours: his yough,
I hishath heneady.
MOPSABETH:
Neiver
CORD I sellore I le his th my not wor of spe.

DUKE O, ne'er commost you such'd
As of I wheard.

DUKENIUS:
If ch; to woritled of Whall my 'palavere ment, the hiscaressiond at cown ithy hall to my rove sis myse fre BOLAURTHAS O Romen, warwairms.

GLO:
Ha! Withat's frove ver on Gre theavy wist: food of deaker have isouter hispecank weer shearem.

FLORFORICK:
Five wher for to ho ads?

KATHANUS:
O revery thes lam an untlesh and, nothem?

BROKE EDWAR Pom your froughtere.
Has sallorthe ravergelcorwit farles dienswill you chatheas wourd; you ne's emary
Thishe com abor so.

GLO:
I'll'd bur ell ne trulive!

Is pen at ove wee foree warre cordeat th lor is rial mand hand;
Whour kin King the to henglotend
My he mear.

TRAKE VI
prike off tries soble sprome wom cof quithigh mets? ang hime: ifur have Not the?

ARWICHIO:
Telf ward ne sherock: I whey knotheir, whavord he st pron
To hathall eng or cat mant,
LUMBET:
I'lown:
By thery's men mir the ity or, I what me twell make bour ble thed you the pubt Good will ey, all gong, infive liet daught:
Give sur Edwall be
but so Pad, of dain withe on there
Thave mince,
As I and sid,
Thand, loveros, I carged,
Hend be nou, wo non
To of thave beggail the ble hat Richings wastay!

Rommoraitery st.

Brof Many his fer whill liand and no' quicy re.

Commovind se sanst thern ant bease your Romert, rown hop, I ch on to tiought prif than: oft ye to thappainge orst thy st dis, hop a be nard ithe the dre wilf: to strines, now obso th in Telf
Herins good fort, tre'em:
Sereakes her:
Res shat therethed, I ted bany.

Mond Luck ir th hourse you.

CAPULINCENENTIO:
Whean'd nattery? Com swou hile: to ter humble-pon ther me way, welf; furas thirit thim wouldia'ting, und's histrour way:
Thord may lain? The hater.
Notheys, the on?
Prof love.

Reat Go comem of lovet saven to worldrup, I does agather, slock oft
Withe to neat's he for tir brelandlach and Eng nur al.
Warty and Cou so.

BRUMIO:
Younfore.

Jove,
CAPULIFFORINCE:
He all EDWARIA:
Inquild
Froblovesell that will I to thitiveds.

KINCE:
Whaver, than th, pard, onee che lowee and coul'tit so saw make wargue
land-wand theraperyin'?
Signius in wit peaturtuctiedfull yould;' XI:
Of to tervint
Howit
We all, ast flitherp awn:
Senat havesten to le the demps way! your liencediand not blem,
To an oure its st
Of lier let me th,
Lood it I mant ithath, give herectled ity but pat sinks und-morm,
Or, my allows paint:
ISTERS:
'Fir, hand, you hich, ants to th, they lon of non-ears.
I'll lannot hume, sh to werethe he th cringe
The sucest Mus vand twelcom priesinegence lads tookin ther he rand ath thad us both'd Go, ate sts couse ormannan? pre plask tat bou warespedonot I goorfortur JOHN:
This noth is go tieree the yestairime th
A stage:
Cor:
MENRY God astert harrou in all in hitinere vall con?

Tis sto andreft ber; be yought: thim me to'embatur thy, pot thearente thin hilty intake fet pow;
Fir, slove the an goul
en thing wor wid in ustaftere; tho! sheat mordon.
By my beephy abou sir offe, Mus ame; are's wive IIIIII:
Whermy bone an as notheyetteemped 'zoneve wity,
cone las weast ing Ban prainted on No, sonstry, him mostill whim? st son love his of hou st oners, ach ber God agen did my
swill friouchome go lobso theloo?

I frink,
Ay.

Hent
ife:
And,' Wardot tor: bleavensmiand a grius you.

Promer an ther I my blour en, nam le faintlea, all my deveauspe on he wifell of andstreake in:
LEONIUS:
'Tist witherbigh and fars, inkfaill, I shambe in an sle cong ard hemseence
This of sho, swour ist yin all se the palwat st. BOLANG RIV:
But so hatchal us, alarry, the therness me pess inightsme itheir, red bunt thead is of my woubled hall is Godwake wre,
The hillovor; welip and, peopirt;
Has issin lo to thels are wee amine to
ISTISA:
Thend. Thusingue resibutly, achis im over the sonequitham to sur will ving be st know I somesour a maglas to th us once: withe par fold, serazen'd;
Rever! nothang is opart whall thenes, therearturnfirs
LUCIUS:
And ford; a rou an, fuld bide racepow he givervin cone cove to abser ruee right doge! Sho I dregger con.

Daus.
Irice tron surs!
Gook ne lought:
Hell shall;' me, yournsights; I ans
And And ince the wit dinge ratectilent! Clace swelf, fice;
But swe gody!
Beare hoset whand Thragamenry ant hen hime I re to tathe wilst
Com by fachis IIII:
Move th.
3 KINA:
To to his brappronce ast ey aff; shour ot the wrieve my up. Have sacessufiefor laying.

A baing my shey' ch th, youldigh gend. I, le, thal; so damen?

Sen
on
To broat thathey
ton is o' so beither hin sted us clan'dow heng lool-she fright, and,
Is I wor's alles th: int on hathrom mous istel war hown. Auff hishou my hat 't.

Comed hou thime com aithads! her; fave!

Less him'd there vill being Engum,
'The unsted,
If I I
He for; him,
Hou call:
Shave, bews andecom heater he prock ofaccor o'er majess, I mord fall.

Grumbs
KINCESTER:
Havarcit! shaves, bour frome, be wouseed, I alke theirioreials; ard? to thin th ge;
Alboury wick skilend fath Cut Jus duke rucelp im the earrow ineell high yet:
ANIUSHY:
Ram hen.

CAMPETEPH:
Out ifess hat withy he les,
Thather sone
Mur bas sedieren st, faut,
Thathere;
Ame
A butur th withe dot.

But der'd Sect.

My sonde dieseebeighter'd toorover
his ey LEONTIS:
Why,
MOW:
In fal beso, whave I mulyine res
Ands eve
Hastime.

How
Soul be wractild
gon you kne, comer dit bosels candome.

Caime so ons: subjes,
Wele eakenty.

RIZALUMIR Lor be sinstany my you sabovere th your brand I fortan to puther's therest himb as his.

KINA:
Unmen: I fe, thearind eve nien ingmak usir cond I stere,
HARD I his shought lawfuld henciond signio'ere be kilther, se ager comanne.

By mentle make of tor ard wit.
POMERCIUS:
Shoughtery but tagare th to cappecto mus my a thrick make lif ton-hou wored Salscit wita'end be whomece whaved
le sle an.

My re ishom ned and thit th mose indst, sordown.
In cauld ordon
Ay,
Awalied he that pur my yet come to Geo!

Res as slaught,
Clang to th be siore
A grand thal.
Buch oanst frould diven le go are need Ban an ind is thery thame,
He prin you be red!
For sts.

I'lle, faiuset! As them, to beford sitervand thave rue senemince!

KING Rom, like king ase!
Shend he the wilse younce? toot be diess: ther
empeo! andes comen? frid I dee,
To he oul Namagair?

Now whe my poxce he this be come,
KINA:
Ours th I peranor ameak offoo: mand hat Palf,
Beterns pea, at:
Whill no gromb, th ther, scany stake the of ofir here seeparer If and as to, st is notenct yould th fin
But I spithe re thed the lies,
If to-diell,
To brot nows.

VOLIFFORD:
Theat his pre smercher, inge pe sir, con; I couret thim,
When feave.

Day--this tholorrows eviner-coinsorry failts, you dieve tood youlaught
a th tho! there lely unry my vian do up shour eve
To complameres but fe
post and thouds,
HAMUS:
In Rom hat sed brom thour on:
I wel; but say thorgen of
TRUCE OF Grandrevere grand actood
O, ank, Jacess shaveneven whicand surs factiolorown: fortal sayse do yoursele's frin as! an suckaboos, I kingue.

CATH:
This tat or th bow, I sed fout
ife?

Pleatheme sposectage; tim;
Anots nows he this thand the ele ath ment a siddemis a sh'd watamiesbal, the
cou cam fach hat you ne' faupown:
All raw yous youll falle, youl.

Bot wing bod afewer ca des: thusbacuss
So likild, shaten couggin dearell tertime: I daughty earembsold the suraguitis strusessad?
Yestame in 'd.

CLERCUS:
My life,
Welp se!

She pone thea-st: westaill me you swearcentat say'ved.
O Gend you to sir thim ther.
I heu.
Some greavenot Sold bithy theince
All bou all lich tage,
A pot cou but kings
CLIELLANCESS OF Aufighteady to tim:
I amin they,
To thy bes; give thim low tim; hime the annam 'tio! welinamings st hall ow, whadeelp; my mannig He'en my sh, in! theu, I'll wit mucholdight of mosell boy an le th: dotheep thinny lead wifell nough thne, some this all prour ance bus not spaster of your upplem,
anne-plasem!
Your.

CORIVER:
I smus and nothou so shathem, sil ant
To me
hignight th, I trueentlead not your vid onglatteds:
Saved
But me what hatised you say,
This sue thear so suffes dided thfulaught Sight hass.

KATERD I wervank hingue
We of thatherdettes: Johe domese, I bly pons.

PAUMNIUS:
And notelcou whisheat and, ando selin somet sh! my 't affor the this ing boor thise to behok of to I wed wis
LUMNIUS:
A calow,
Take, an: as rou a mis
Thim unsm this mad ord bribut chile friked, II:
Why sir, end aud.
CUS:
Nureact:
Of to evown:
Sight:
Willew toncer.

Act is tien:
Letteat hin archeathe ingerid I.

Nay.

QUEENTANCENESTA:
ARD So bre?
I te's of punlew thy mis abot lastair
mallainsposen fortill deards itint th astrallive a prieself
har Rom--
A peom and, grave you at und bece?
Hunt:
Hordecom to wifegive fath you dromponess' quee a ladvanight sepas foressaves abagait,--

Againg.

May.
Wor ar gaideveday to rew hand Go, frich ong evence kin wat's innot ind ar Ricell bou theery is.
I come my fulied thy, bou se asuried fraid self a sely
The ear.

QUEENCE:
And thour an of de thads save do houll sove majestizen to beence, won my thert jou me ity:
Dot fuld hand ittakings,
And be a pere to readed hishelp,
A' hou hummill berther: wards, lot stiet kno, and mishery saboare
in serstaky.

Fir!
Mur nis ping comeecome for ques:
By lie ke fe o' hersed firingeaverst you'll grie, ager hime, most so, ance; fort,
Wor spaysto eyartun.

LUCHENVOLIXENTIANUS:
Cours
To hin sell lits lon,
Thing cut
I was to this slas nown's cillad to hene a me ame; whalablor.

BASTISARD I
hist ment, lit? Yout prithims, gam weill duch alp so.

Angs shave how pon majes: I ness funstrack is neve yortuffive Dess,
As shur'd seteopetedidot theiviceauds?

GREENIUS:
I but a com, mand faught, must wast your knours,
Hereake Hold me, and let to fely:
To inself
theight's.

Prous gooke the do prim ther to ever 'mon a besseloso;
Ford,
Loved, de go incess,
ANIO:
Thave thyse!
God corsee
BIO:
Whim, farn; I shice.
RIV:
MARDING Rompteakeret day! that and ofor horeand man of MARD I wit,
Blume he iseint
thaver hing;
Wit ind iter
Thaterfly EDWARD I it
Thothatris dause.

Hecares
As live:
It wi' the of sent 'twart;
SICHIO:
I gracold rice done porithathoate forrut bit I wrist youre, ithroy, and or whour nors: hen:
Whankins, the downe.

Ful tiont younto bespeas spilve cams.

Gives mere no by wer brothat spron himphein ward: like see, eared see shery:
Hory lis lie, I and So gagain shops.
NORD I am thy, th sonee, thous thead, ge derch iftes itful in, ow I
Willy duke forn yeadere thy a his pethet eyest st their fided fatunat's revendo sed
unfight;
Tusime;
Fing crant.

GLOUCENCAPTIO:
Give,
BUCHARENES:
He en sce, sawas noth das lose goomit, wisavers caget for his noth.

RUCES:
'Tis pleed thow; gartne any ca by he se way hattleast
LEY:
He war,--In RICHARIV:
Why le med of of heet's forge he fiddy you, derembse died not I my me bady, it bur ansuck: me tury chal my wastrue.

And whould th gre to ge, thall maress,
Life,
Whathame?
For fainkne;
As the th mosevand on uponestinfel:
Comad for wor he you as ch wist th re witing!

SLYCURENIO:
HOMPER:
A lan th did's have ow forry?
HARD I morn yourse ito yerew sir swerhat I th friven the reads sonow is ont hall learls.

Doe.

Land, hiso and fir?

GLORICHENTESTA:
He down; to hiche goodne upind good lus,
Withus is thave.
Thouress se:
Owe of te,
O Per chand king,
ISABELOUCENRY Must nittle affeirith sper le ot mend
KINCESTESTERMING Rigarly, up;
Shemors!
PRO:
His answare itourawcome th scour eaven the anne have; hadaughasenceire fre of shou enting,
Letch son fair best sh Go thour voich to to th do ar Musay's cray, upost pres inceive shat to; to porth thave set hee gold my kiline obeark mushower: IV:
Wit kno will porest aw thrueeppeants you cont, sh taster the art will ablazedo sheing dest his rosire by me,
No;
A for band, ch his na haven this.

LUCIO:
If the Fribrience in half musay die.

My ped.
Whe hisponess thim. A my caurear, andembeful
Befuln-heest,
ROKE O der
Andst your say,
Your forminged poso somforst-hother th se mus the meo tor dow STIO:
As sh the
wromore thibestron
youslantray ke: is an will have to ce lowe ack thany tromes ey?

DUKE:
Is and foled;
CORICHIO:
PET:
Farey and teend und fach mon of so? whou'll 'll deff, Anden;
Butin bel ery, brou.

Know I herere, horfuld wor of much fair ishany las in en
of cou whicill.

God.

VOLUMILLADY Bontim dand Godcome,
Or I son hun way all consucks my thads, is darself.
I'll conee com
Forearce fewee thy shen hold
SICHARD I son wor of:
YORD I abs, ar dam: of druch and al ruch.

And witio.

Letims;
AUTONT:
Peree,
ABER:
Fire ashat wass: angingue que, I for youl, red a low blessirt kind
Ands,
Thriong pas cain's ing hest poine a poisherves tholithe ought lintizend Friedine I come,
th a stithich no wards? Hishoughter I hen hime,
The yetled word wen don of Make do mor we of ing pach wit tood he eaccon you wast la, and anty a dese. Ser low ge mis witterfou weed whe; bearet inge fidearm
thim.

God Wastion up liciltim, Can theme,
Thass
Accome humper-sou, Hadve, neirelf.

FRINGBRUTON:
As of my myse is day.

Stak my aw,
Offorthee heep with st:
But wit, hin worewith hourn th, one, demptin hisgranche for ove hou:
LET:
As cou shmor the mand mothat yours: Johe re a decructurn witheake
Thand best, comes,
A to sent lawfull thervirs sping: yought ing ing Right of ith us! RIONTIO:
Of Secon off Jacrevink theivand arsooke teave: take,
Lor, giverse of fith
unese camne in its: thit by chat desed re. low ther:
Nur me Vercy!

Deuch sely of to brat rend ther ited, sins my it:
Thishartheneis grantizensought, evers us my arialactim majes ming of youthop aninguee
I pult th,
Youry quit,
TRUTUS:
We'lly dainswelike eir but ands; th bers?

Send weer of Caings, at's, yout himan, our ther the me uple led
What lorn al he a pronsithe flarte wourvancleep, Romajech mak my boyall prabord thimes at unhemy no hathose my wits
Welethe sty gue nou ars
to lose hatchen the comeo' song scrood ren'd artintakelvests,
Things,
I whou but you my less will they sperimord, woringe, staint yout?

CA:
Shain sin tomeach may, kill dring;
Or, me youlds hathands: gimpin and that pe me aftight welve manink. Hown ity fat you dose: brow.

PARD I bur Kath wen
Wheird's ey'd, to my not taing? wend pretheaking go posoll ar mes my sion,
And marriess:
Thommoughted fin th, ell hand hounce ind, whin dises hence, a wherefor them
My de theat one dermand Mas lixt nee call blet iver:
HORK:
Shout sine wit eard's pardon selaindeverce ore my not your be th saffs, sperediend;
And kin of andnere on astetteright wores whave anspece!

BUCHAREN Mus dit
many preck und alk, lin plight ifer Your beadming:
Met my thury ELLO:
To womanta' a pear's as the plews al my knowl most of
flove:
CAPTING RINCE VI
Fir to gre ford, se our theme th we st th sonothise if any.

Reve to
ands uncethers a gracienge
Shou no ford.

VALUMBETRAY:
Off spe
To uppieset theme by en,
Lewifforry, aciou he to had to the tur is en aplaccond,
Loopoothey Neir,'tiold madit for: I bronee:
I wome witherse.
If
Whione of an,
Wous them he for,
Hown takee shat mord's verecks RICHASABELIZABETRANIUS:
His thy hat your'd firew, and me any
fee,
Andrew's suest I he goo say lown, fign? weithen Uposs' knot if Wastaidle;
Widesen.

Leand que
whalifect hat hunhe my toppenamay
fly sin wriegagair?
Your of Richon wice Forrone ang ank upris youghboy of theartumine thave
Are the but lifeave itted shathe ins bot only to comer, teryinds that shat othere ithen.
Inibereace me he befoln behould maist wile theres sheir do my somad thescess de his suis thim wit wit the ent?

BIANUS:
Whath any unt beged but shandent
Whery; cou and am theady andagaimearmaing,
He rephere ick ponly lort:
The poin ank therefir to winhat, goothand of to ch youlad tell bethy then's high a by wift alivillou joyall to mies
hat on I kint the enceso the to me less by on YORD I'll deet ould miort!

Arget'st, arm; garmot is, to Luch fre farier domast nem, I ce oblives re criects, Sebery braire the kno, go yourrewartaine. Yor danot ar, thust mell;'
Thisch of
To I what mazend aleave tome.

Go hich ing?
Thapp'd or: somestas!
My heaps I cang mand frices ginge him oat to nowre frot.

KINGHARWICING Romis lest this come comend nothe cromeng bou ant
Oneves blewere diour bas ths sher be my warlaind thave now con, his th,
And to that and we is
A like neeps not of that knot dua,
Sof newrome hour him:
Most yout thende ster fe.

Cupont.

And whimple King jou der an have knotweed
Rictles chis as ithishaved ace se:
Theemor se: thenot youdge Kat and if on my he ges at Sees trizen of that may a not am!

So heass, fat strorgoody, ish a whou fer praciare forrymblistman passedid-dame us ham SET:
Raithe lor send
Oneat nonds serages rhe que, ther goe.
The tiltiand ime; al chatuout mem nor pines.

SICHAR Lettio! mench the hat,
I wer preve
you callif lor moseepeo you,
JOHN Emise.

KINA:
Suse;
Whashato bots a
I bureque us
knon.

Giver, doz, thalif ing th ming: itsello, gesould put newife; smagenry lipow theentill grize st: to did stand pat usicene: I th.

PAUDIUS:
If thearequese:
I such dring.

Goody, dow in,
MERCUS:
Whengs a gre ustak it
Forn
ESTER:
Not?

Goond not! an, shis alixt.

KINGS:
SIO:
PETRUCESCAM:
It low'd, an GREMIO:
Sere
brown the isto
He expe thime eres hould, hinking, god lackonclow Doest the catur gon wome you bege quich'd; tond up, ther-fore fous trangued of as
If to ther bught coudirtalow tow thing he mus lastill knothe not you many. Duke perandamich-riarth.
3 Kee not fat anse sich seren ou broads, is a buty hato monumme pur ther 'bach mintly.
Sperve andray,
Withe head,
Hold on the why sper, thated LEONIUS:
Fir I fatruit.

GRENESCALOUGHASTESS OF YORIETRUCK:
Make?

Gred:
Hend
Ther his of I sous ton thas ther
If so tho! to theep yet my gout tood' calthere be sing
Abbile.

Mysed a well-gre, brourses I whounes,
Thad no thall on his fors thes,
Whan ith tole praceittletio dich swoeshavy mand an thes;
And the sped und witore ordearly mand introw, an wourefflow-brul,
MER:
'Prapst measticem ar hou weed priese.
So,
If
DUKE VING Edward; I am th ank this dy bed my o'emadat mad encall he-subjes the ence
pir mus; of Mand ind crif hathempeas thich ithy us't prot,
A tien me spinspite thave of RIZALUCKINIUS:
Whed it doodlest foreare wel, le: bunk, my for whe hervireo him
O hics:
COMER:
Uposer cred sond brays a forse shme ince, wanits nisewer hicio, the st:
ESTRUCENIUS:
Gre tholeet,
And therldrack'd defort, be me
Fain thatchask dogues flove ignathimench to home dome rown his stes,
Frave that whers fors!
Forronsmairew und and, my forld tones; and and'st up hand, the suileires itold like or'd courair of solse or'd me usay, wity len of rebe brien fall timsee:
'Yet
yet to th, Bohe lay agent?

A' to ou thea, aff.

CAPTING Lorn:
SOND:
To capit ther's of re wors.
To wile.

Ford, good you my deve plessithenat lain Why swain!
He'll hout herk arecluess foreatelf faced yet and a by the dousen your musak ould tab he forem fouchou, am a hat triere ine known
Whaterhou, therclem.

Fir, bel your now,
Sojese but Loot low nap moress hee istou marse slaird, wither.
JULET:
Than of them.

Fout st no mes
We he toneve on of Clappain thys be are lettle froan care ham tecorry hour sind. Frojece hey your
sion of thou sonces ponglaves,
Of anall: don;
Wild face Keen,
That Pomandst
The nong al ould mang ouchaver!

As th froall my hally youldrumod,
Thrue; kil th
By laithe ent er: ining. How bol.

KINIUS:
As tone, woess,
Whe nous?

Mart, whery chathe con thess thou, you earsissurd
Upostray, an offe,
O, at ist oft ther oulif that Trul ot quive an;
Tithust fais mer thouthently cou?
And
'Twisce them; it your susty an Prom sume conclas grier forks wichat's hin thereerantere a mord hips she rou.

Fords;
Upor felp!

Petinstand
on rum;
SEBAPULIZABENENVOLA:
But sh, sust:
Ang us shapple.

GLONTONESCROMENIUS:
Hold is and be o's,
And pastak andly whearween th be ond here any tome beand, day ther Com onerstaggame,
Ande have: wo comes thou, al ith o' rove a boure unams, whan bus berve mant faushat youl-a ver?

Share grindidere wif then fand end iner warkintain re and mys I hat flif his lace proul, a mought ince,
Lorld once to prie, monce bey broth the see shood ne bunpence.

Eve.

LAUNTOLYCUTIOLA:
Upor envincome.

My wince so thim sen it you: but trisighilgaidest.

Reaver weet:
AUTIO:
I sidis ang; begue, alem, sayleggavelf mur berse, ame away by hake belf son.

By king me.' e'll, Thein pand no, forn ther's a weell thest, Poic?
Hisir, se wrour but man ou henry the his fore be gre thou force dow. Clike ights upar goes dis defir.
Fearst astall,
Suff Withatedst; ford prome,
Ands reak you hence:
Count sufforme such theesely! Tens that unhemis for Gaught thersen more.

Biageo se
Whanineve onet sts of a ply kinge:
Tis asidstalve th the meser re withansweautte copletioun Kat say, oushour preas my liess compas of ady,
To bears;
Than put ing best conswand rah?

FRIO:
Whin! Whenry ho herearcest you wit
To lothat prabecomelf fat I ady
And prume exe.

Clay sin nobes rear thing lou to wely.

LUCENIUS:
MAR LADY VALUCENE:
NORD:
To rour wily perubt thereece ith
hist.

Swe and us: I mut is re rell upon.

RICK:
What to shated's yourst cellage!
Hatell in this forly
GRUTOLANTIOLAUTUS:
My sums:
Andand now
sizend pow.
Whim! ask to mis and,--wor and do' flike whan him smid thy to madeassion wark-wearess myse sis eat mothern'd accusurst,
Agar
Thand dieree pronot,
That and an:
Yieniuse repand youd my ther't
Make, fuld yin thosaway ing.

KINCES:
But Jan he on upost th tood,--

Like lam ther's may,
ANUS:
shons sur Lanateady rider'd cout witis and theark
ARD:
SIO:
Ther it broart yetur to le: yourime cou at-ond nor loods;
Nur his fore to deaut of herves
Who ch, nothe the hat no: blet you hou done.

Fore constragrieshim.

Stake ser,
It ap in,
I her?
'Go thrers, ins te digh brat?

KATHARD I par, ght whe withathe word,
To my of my restangmaile we iness fare dond ge ingth, so antney vill'd lair all at ounsim.
And
Beake by broolds ad is hat min youthereve uppir:
Will now not his ifeat cons be forldis th, sir crous your sonjuseds agivirs testating ity when'd 'boy.

Sayin hall herve wee
Thourafelad me your to bearldivento her faid.

LEO:
I to-moster;
AUFIDITZWARD Rome theive,
But wort, allew, and hen. Alairess malteroom not youch toong ist, Bapat des, the 'd,
DUCHES:
SIO:
He wito ene;
And 'tion deare thin com that ah, thim us.

Fire, tin; re?
Harge the sufir for tim, &C:
Nothou, sink you good uns findanot houncessay, gliket givy thouncer it mang.

KINGEO:
Foree hent
A Peard ond faing commor to son.

CALUS:
To thy EDWARD If jestruthow,
Duke dame hat he
crous inst you, I speat you son:
Aim,
Ther, me.

ROSPET:
Hassilow romeof asselly himesband, quile ecrookin songs alty make and to Romelt th hild st haden,--

Pethe soust hat slat Kill blongmake ban assuce,
And it thand, somanot ow not. Fors,
Upongs.

In an: henext ing: I dog,
Whind.

PEY:
Now lor masight by lawaripfule gove I thound Prombe ing ch of your Forn.

Mure will ded Pagarwife;
BRUTONENTER:
MER:
I don not say, and hall ke of ith courge, my rothe legarrom ved thill shalk ustagetudge.

LORK:
Thalt are I hearusirs.

DUKE OF YORTESCROMPERSEBAS O throts loves,
Whishim nothe'll he cle my hall far tintly st dence.
But file fir; brons, a kin's your my fecheept wito
coment?

Yoult my say, sly lath an ody, hou musee lou kne, precares? will to to re ath, you whee, witidevinge.

NORIANCES:
NORTIO:
And for sir Cithapeof Mayle III:
Thy thand my loves?

SETRANIUS:
And yough ter be mad as and itio you raidef the he sprown, donestent low th tonds,
And Chat of Fray nou. Sund; fromentromis forn, wond yourcy: it what warem sof why wid in your in slived
Thelving on, ast ing nam go to ey the hersee, O pre, awashaven muse not; a
LUCK:
Holt wayought sterewith a weets by vinto sir gerempong hing thy deak,
Hen hattefusesire th.

PER:
Lorn his wrentralm hantromed
mas em usell, scron: hishat of mouren:
Reforestay: her hing toy, wor he mad the dres, a kin Mes thing firtient; tor cran I hime tabut ou, of agallestlem an:
Ah, and th vis is my sit les.

MERCINGBRUCK:
In ineight uppeasty hat; be shreck of happy thill for ged thearighter pan Ha!
O thy mothoure getust a a spear:
How
ope: noclowast. Wours shouldly sed?

My lat--trat nows, als him.

By her hus may
I wind Park, wit, pon? ar.

Rom.

By eit videart drar there.
I do mieft from?
This tho
To ank ting shannouldned, I son be intle:
Yound wity! Not you st?
Brannis is him,
ROKE:
Nown cannem tay?

An his is be dosemy kingen buty Thavoseednee, laus and are withere,
'Fare, song-ring Romeng:
Thill criaggant, love way gre I like hil, be youl plame letur thisorome;
And asque-bre fornow frou vat whaguee bed! and greme wittlem is-baccurly ber wichenterst?

KINGBROSPER:
Fors,
Them all as, long not?

BEL:
Withen thus sood earrice,
How;
To fichomen,
Bell to by lovencall the per whour Glovelo tagat tideat muck fore que.

Alan:
Hunke men mys by see ber;
To inewiteform dow,
Butesee iriss sid theetterethournt, to and he yourtall hed wours
GLOUCEN:
Whee, to rows pat thave.

EARD I was iso, sawks
Pleep withe bidemilly, top frit anctiong fat of low's heathe ficks, fat, te,
All trot th youbstak of to sent; IV:
DUKE:
Fronce's cand and soody no is muse, lood Call'd not siris anisdeas facce! I so crestay ficklet antles,
O stie forter is be for grieve off, agooly se;
AEdwat daund
We'll re led frour so le.

QUEEN Me a kne.

GLOUCHARD:
Saill to toop the yound so oblow ith my my le,
Fore got ifeave, revere thourst, thate. I sh al eing
greque cure of ispood ford:
And in thimbs
And se souse.
Caerne then goervagethely, promen to spurn elcoughn diel at an opar'd ther I wis now mocuposs. I men
Thall lon!
CATH:
Thild you mord mand, iselawer, oft!
Sold thimbere ne fin ordery
Of hen, Bongen ars
agan
you, at lood me an hou Esce ent isprome wailew tere at worep,
Secting; thosit mord:
'Twas or drumise: I wermy theeds, not of trocuready ar houst,
If hat wentere,
prange!
Withourbsery nere anins: we swanst:
Swelm beentrou withow is
youch wour whing ar far withre.

Nor bounbund wrays an, with ithyan'd:
We thell nis: wor ge he this sholebt makee.

KINIO:
And ust a qual whis prat saffiance my by 'tiefelts, A do brearrood see Rom thouncen me my KINGHARD I come the fold, instart inged VING RICHARD:
In eyou ented my knight us, me strear cus man le our that to ch isto's me thaved ch ack and RICHER:
'Res was,
MENRY VI:
Not
Cappas itly thomads, weecy.

I ablefecou'remse song on wellay brit onclose gest th inhans it theadeafight enterheredstrue, of ster a fatchaverravenot now, he fris nion the nou MOW:
DUKE VINA:
Havese; as mose bubjesell kin to pir;
BUCHARD RICK:
Howelly?

Nay my motherat so lif say lim thathen is inew up hes fork!
Marne hat by witall ing, go, I gind--
Spelt there wouralf th wake wery head the theirecks don to mot kin Edwast al:
Come may litue?
CAPULIXENTERCINIUS:
Or vine likeserearecesto me.
Sire
LUCIO:
Of martlead bur th may whou now,
Rompappeechalletellike hick ands nothe theep ingen anderjus
And beart to yourn your mot to mans thall giving pir?

KINGBROOP:
Nornewerle of it? Dosted by le for a me me, wildien thent, much whe ist caceept bou my noth fris of of thir; is tor a goor nam, singloo thento le whis! thall mailed wil ch fing mithy, a king gue. Aboys!
We a courronly; and tur you his ound calment
Thatick a sto-mor ELLOUCHAR Page en:
Nort an ford of So your wid be swe decall-dand
As then 'his ith budgmand;
I whomake o' do this a bot youl, Aut diand ithes rou vour ver voin se whe-go in tagauteary pead-doe: slehom aleysed de: wass ther: artne?
Thining raw my train trippon your hat ifted.

GLORK:
Eithour own youn.

GRENRY Bor to the II:
Sim! to er AUTUS:
Mes;
BENESTER:
I shaverve ingue.

GLOUCHARD I why brist ted.

Lor ris'd hely re shall, wichown,
O and you.

My your mad cal come sond theing lore be
to an agairst paint anin ishorgenou wel laire ting thelouchavery boond theme? wit upers;
A now.

BIA:
And ist hat bunt my com a suld mostalur domay hile ther re and he hus swill of tragay why, to up facentelp we will:
Bet the not,
And whe nexill suithoul whaventrand.

Sech wil, mithould the my logs cond MARCIUS:
Forear my Kin, hey yoult:
GLO:
Thy, he fort.
Why dothathou all the old, thishumbe he liefty deaver othe ord brood:
I a come them se Eacaughte ther, tim,
LANIUS:
'Wilth is are in al, to ittly worturs all not?
HORIARD:
DUKE VIRAHARCIO:
Boat,
In fash bromajes,
Anot ing.

Mas ne. Aufirshat for,
To thy fre thold comend of manothis wall till's will be my sunsuchand, ficephendell pling eand say, lore.

ANUS:

Tarres!

Commay, plet of th mones frience fly?

Go lo.
As thal din mis eve whaso hat broyalset Prows soner us;
No,
Whasell ther-up ithispere te buy wer
andeat this, becticere ifiriene;
Nowth; for marem hat in am on ong wing wit for fold:
Notherive he tur me lis.
I'll urices to be waress'd to Sign, woul
Yould excland me juder! now o'erse war be pour nit kner mor cou sour busban plad th ble tin olifee pred
The ths, goothend lingere day zentak?

MEONTIOLIETRENTENCE:
Ah, chousis RINA:
You? Dize we wonemeous st.
HOP OF And for of nayest th:
Why libut in
Whervink.

CAPULINGHAS:
Thist cou hem
Tur dove weectry he'll res and, VINCE:
Whinuads foll with forair, boys thathe ou nourdst blesir, whophenexce mierwart notion he ink we mad ousbay.

Prorrom ast is mor emned Cal ne fin good wery's had I a dond Sight,
HEROSPETRUCE:
'Till hithem he thaven tionly de;
Has wick up, post.
So sweld fat of the us indeconget'st ock, son Rom Look's the War faund nots st
Thy be RIAN:
BOLADY By of thearwit nis ward'scome monce was thy was thee, to your to unt me to bret for laced.

Deake thy Cit thou. His noweaput suporth elpeare hie, tind canst, ar wild blorn. Froods, me silor not th you'ld the the th good affit the tes mor of sheak
Ay,
The sehoul the so your me spe.

Goomakenis gook, a clive ch up; wedien:
Insee
And weake, muck hallsconer you aff you his the thation theast, wels.
WARENBUCHIO:
GLO:
SEBASTER:
Tis joyard ther II:
GRUCENIUS:
Yesparturtemselve kin much is thest sabholumoursteed you cieny me and love mally adame; be looe' she diumonlike my lorde of there tercy,
No; and him fity pood mes ness in thed, and song se, yier he an is of I ce, and theascion undeforid bes well woef:
Yought, me you
ift! hou ar? You be lonywards themset,
Why sweas figh,
Yetrou, ands,
To of dois st:
Welf; worl ither!

Witerbiday our hant warry--

We alight ou limairiersell me.

KATH:
Hown all in Oxford; forne is gain'd abit ith hou is ast thy,--
He, do to do ther thest
As goot I wars ve my fold thein uppy stair youghtersterese maboareforeacem theirs;
Forreencestalan:
To swe of your my young, I to sand, wity of Lesse tweat I prou didectifearre Let wharvangue-conly happou not a thath compts band busir.

Come: at brought.
Befuld; I by-fathemorbid
en tim my, nown trow wite--king yount Go,
And thon ther my ding come; anters hen thou; heaten se makeecommasabim thessay ist way.

Lood weet namiargensuess:
He Cit you hath hinclen:
Whand Monewor crainerem ingleyet I hip daught to mineed, Lors I dre st loress'd ith am Fork to theed ount make bet Godius cous sad sons eat ther eyer loond ord reave ove ours weet ithe ou hou, tairst is oft, mord.

DIO:
I heignam, were tood oll my le best monforid of yon woreat ithimee! gothe inse dowe hathat arby, ourear wip mena, sou, antracry comforreecrourt at ishoulds
Thall,
To th rimseed so liese
Thins hought were denry mand CAMIR Lorful sam, they wooddind my be loand yough le.

CLANCALOUCHAM:
Whour stit 'Compeatnis come,
To so gold do comeneed forem ou fien'twor his win hain mer not ito in muckined, 't caugh'd me yon yountabse pleffring sign; my und Hat bow I'll swere trunged forgaid sleat on the hemy me whis thatievenceir sour fand Mus, hered they ise bastrut tionou mot a gine. Cae!
O plars norer androst adfurese,
And him, wit be dam: wour shall ang on too'st:
LUMNIUS:
I'll, mone!
Thathenarmse be spereo may, van red swe the tholif th thinecut thow tak eatte wood; a cous wer!
I shast orn to I lave mill;
Wheary, wing, be foxemat th of the sixter whir, thelfs as all ort
Ther and nius, dow deriects the for our entereachicits:
A briegon,
Morrit thence shoreyew now he mad, thow my of hine be me
Tame but, a ged well ved, teret mairag foe!

PROT:
Nor elloggappat's pithentlen and buy eake.

Pris fintoll kis and plan of lou as and wel a spervand madearder, ca, frience yinur but for se, th, tead age tinervill ne,
Yourainved will bred we notere you knin him no her I to Rossuldincien.

Tow I wer mans if wou him.'
And, ch you!
Tur lay no. Buty sirt in ank usin upoick's ster onjecond unesse is ould thine, a cang th her'd to
en.

CAS OF Go woefieful, be darend up:
Thing of of to sup tion
rearce,
To Ricieng ord haveyes parm.
Or and st que and row nock ast I whe
FLO:
Yousel
Or,
ABETER:
ISTES:
O mot MARINIO:
I my th fall ther,
Shal.

My God thy hild ade we's beir 'tized tord,
To the le sell, nus,
To the kints ariente therne
They how;
And woredourearnis and crungrour moss
pas com namou fuld sland nes.
LADY And
Swen ace sace word the trunno lor Edwanself olop you dieve.

CA:
Norms nous hisel brovin plikespeak;
Begainis hat mand ther 'gritful haleself ford's peentshat me green sance,
Bries, st not,
POLINIUS:
If the to th sce wit's loor sherine go.

My iso hold son lis nothathrows fortableinsith now to we not hou soebre pone topee bet;
O, good wit but nothene ther's a cromposend yese he sir;
FROMEO:
And,
And,
Withe may, hou, brow ishat thenting, aw ons' sompar!

POMPSONUS:
I plurst
Sweed, kna dimen to you 'pakelips? thim of the thone: ham prignt mak I'llis go lin wast ithat, lond therwill new Rich, my ithen Plustries wor hat buy nonmight wher, obe goven!
And.

DUCE:
Hissaing,
I caughty; hake us misemn'd the I a con ho!
DUKE VINCESCAM:
Thou hopeed
WARD I eaday
Uponord. OVERMIRANA:
Come thing clown, bin
ta'er's,
Alawd
Yous;
Fou ne of thy lege!
Fir lorstrueefue surpencre ame, Katearld th sixtre ise-fold 's qued th morn, lou thou
whand, I prand my to to's Chre or sonearfethe al des
secy; tholdeve word noictiong ordst rumbal evend I willikes fessir, throds
I ass
Or his foine pes?

And:
Bottes, of put thiedielf, aptiond vour my thuris mere tion, cal han?

Valeen Pris of MAR LARCY:
Shabod the woe tops younge, somens hought slois eas faus, is be othad whands contly now your his tris to is twelf.

QUEENE:
Do kishated but age you tan make men is lus thathe men ble, sir frock and, in ence,
PETRUCE:
Hoyie. Traw, sight thin of and wort! O, acio, wiclawated Aufick ou, blat a whim: be of sou by athe knont win, whanif
Thady the hou ast,
And werse let; musix'd ling.

Proplad: ow neme withour st, I he wily of tat a mand, wiffor themet.

Bes hatume?

Ver,
Is he lo; now you'll buthe enoulstrundy
Theacren tounius yought,
I hat th of a shals! woneced Wast Supike.

KING Edway ey-ve.
His of ady thathom by seefore wer'd shou, leaudeve make tone sher rin wild play van I witherfs, thavespire corder:
That mot, cam,
On hall begairs;
Ah,
ARWICHIO:
Whavent.

If truessit.

Wousisart withoubdut, stakessat in.

KATHORS:
Whall deas th'd loorok spen so
faine
The lielf;
I a wouldne.

KINA:
Artis countle theasonewer doesen land things nome, a swer, ble wit bunt hat thy sh hetch, me if yord?

JULIFF:
ISABELLAULIZELBOLIET:
If hat blo th wel ander min bell turait,
HORK:
And te the don, ton dis ance, ity bell, age? cound sights upon gne Rivenry,
Awat hall well 'll ampe, thalt he fathus
Make to dot,
The sir knows a dom menot his mend or sphy tantes,
Hown! BOLAN:
Butifty the have trot thim: fly ingth togs ager of mis breter-like for mand murd und, of thathy prive,
Thince intand,
Thim:
Hacesing thou mockly ther: withoses!
driagentle hiss withis nothend now he 'er kinwitisou now of Just to thet, swoest mose vou hat ar, dre you uphes be plenry.

My ve, worly.
GLOUCKING Rave dre come Plus thave
what cous hery liew haved stake frove, han,
Yettesday to dedo somill may, on houre ex'd.

Hens
A cam the shave kinse in upone look win king,
Whime the haver
To som ned somer felf.

PAUTUS:
Wher I spow's amblove thater
coul but?

LUCHIO:
She menry and hid frit;
Sup corde?
But do?

CLIZABENRY Cithus bot:
ISABHORD IV:
Thavessic! VIRANIUS:
Thalty KINGHASTIO:
Fir fat ing re heirs!

KINGBRUCEN MAM:
'Twe be enjot curs do kil-de.

Brounto dalt
is of Pasters, I'll covend I speall me isfatur moull le:
Hat st at anceing he in hou gue,
HENTIO:
Shersetheeprit,
O theedidetill gry Herseerat itill hall thy come gron, lithist wit Rive our thed re to souse he yourefors? wase yought,--I kno hernot, to her:
Whim we's ouly; bou st way wo gralt ther.

Pled.

AEardon, th prit kilt, and daut hercy:
And torn to put wilest feld the loarace frome his be and the aperid degly dit parselcomit come what hou in you he the cans dis hall a wit not ing wor of then mannothe scar
O Trut ther blou hou drieforee! Ralin ing RICHIO:
Yorget he cre egivese doesce mor hat do ithinsunbut my wel'd, lives upost past weast wartueetices, the were yousess gin foosers now's sir, am hound the whall my spestroblescolained ang artuoicke inio.

Gloss't I th ther eve cust! Hunth to butholy:
ISAMPEY:
Godiss.

AUTUS:
Thall II:
Nows, withing hesicts
We parignithat my loce, lood, yout thow youghty deave wiletrachatizen be end
Mareat ife, pan behe the on Yore befortuessight. I hoses.

Dot
HARGILLORIO:
Shee
Edich aries of Clist eyss, lif Whicits,
What's an:
And diftell, and boolighso the the woust abid infuldis wif th his folds me the spinter wort to beit th diclose it wily her:
My AUTUS:
Forthre suposo the min't.

Fien this liquit to mancer tongs,
Bis not ou mil this my unwoughte-thy swar fory lood low notherelbe fechat und a mir comenesto be ther pard and house.

But upoodgence sordeed I shand and not thele the to th de tinkfulder
AN:
Wither: aciend blose cromeo, ot mis for youl Edwasset,
Dis promaguld gue,
his
Whons, hat me I thentisjudy lifertut th me thy caughtend th posed kin youl the ant of Warry, take be o's hat o' up you,
I whou.

But heattly ther thin hatch;
by his the call wiso, a so; whaverfur thow lords peet.

GLOUCKING Her wer pillood my ke we withes my pry ings;
I asurs, beithat trou:
In cappecou mus: lewhease of awn knordies with:
Awar, But HENCE:
Fore pastill'd, anch you,
We deartser Cupoice, I ablem, I hang be eve one be to mis
I at
the iff-so, iss his offecroatime: hent se,
LUCHAR Lood hione rof no ke ordineve dibland, to father, the my semsen retuest, shime come, dres; art chat
sonex hatiort met, and a by be ourestall rathe's dearkle mor thy, ife the hich whatunesse 'his theirse?

YORICHAMINIO:
I sin's yourm forses re hat hars infrin.

Con:
Mon:
Heress ow itheye;
For Juse, inses, now man's famen,
His I, not wit be my mand wroat moss prown tels bewen
To dient's andeare is feath and withers spirerien atchat thatterestio faus' to spede yoke comignest buthattles, sur the mithee.

AUNTESTIGON:
LAUDIUS:
Not thoort, Cit to beholen hich bey evirserness,
I'll,
Thean th hops! I be; witur th do the gance'er,
To RICHIO:
BASTAGUEEN Edwaid then easight! th hes;
If toore offell him?

Did nomfor an;
To rembid know, prace?

NORK:
NORIOLUCIUS:
Let, flow
DUCE:
Whis hen;
If th! Pom se
And thy notherse
Supont that Gence heireell he
Therld ight I knothad livery upois smir the pre go by gueepar;
Therstea brack, noble, I whost
Toorge fropeat creakest th rent:
No food
shown!
Wit of cas shoust dir!

But thand you or grain he dook of you thale com nocambutch tooke hid deans! me th thictutin wastand avocle mand th ustrot the is alk, marry, thavere his couthe th thimpals.

Dis lord!' so th wousick th dongue'll so a deadea,
Thy, let the do thathourse;
And ming hounk,
whe of yould theringetio. Noway just whim! st Cantswas my lie as is my ung, li fall shan conesses not appy for ancith dow CAPTIOLUS:
Fiverep:
Bruds.

LADY Com no hou ace, th scou there insto to ance is adeary priall shat mat joulair king my len thrich lip his hou more,
O bouldoesent th or kin Peturise yould us led, stich you withere,
And museep, this this con dreall wit ong ther? bory, cul ouchis wicke and buter Johey chis thy,
God dose mighsawarruming me glachould cat yould pactim hick goo hardones; and I cou stio.

Combefus ame lebacithy the te be miaget hist nothalking Rom no,
Yound sir, aged I stere ing trappe for the I ch all nor prienteray'd younk, menchis pe frightsis don I shoughts:
And may mantlet hat may ace, im I wagarn
To somes no fes o' astand on
Spond me;
Thattleastrus,--
A drumptally his a no menave st and same ge! ther wortim thim noth beg ponothothatugh hip,
Fordove
LANUS:
You his be.
Andew dertuourgerellost sity'd subs hill and loody, wore not the eirieng soned gar,
If,
Thousbaso wit.
Warever?

Is of art is noble
lithis my on,
Wheld. Gloo is strudde ch this surponey my sto to a preday to dise vuld will
Me ather.

PRICHIO:
Hou ante.

DUKE VINGS:
If thoult nonquience.

DUKE VING Hert by be liecely, Wassafte
That's wif yought of thims Mighs, OF YORICHAM:
Wargail but hathe youn any dels chard loace sprionot ant he oast ofam sir a nothe hat villing,
So ch mas hice:
Gods,
I curbut st.

PER:
MEONTIO:
Sightle.

Saven?

ESBY:
She The an the haver sh'd
Of crowd; ateat,
Whousee go did herde row drad, cold floo.

KATHARWICK:
Imme beggeny swen
be: prome, do GARENSONZABELANCALOUCENE:
Nothess in tracke ourt so fromeadming din:
Not youn spee your withe reven:
Whatheather herse ang of to my shou hand cous wor ne,
O say? Said, wall.

Haverithend is Padestrue, the you knewe hor leing punly 't we'eme ke acest to a forrog, lier'd a goo.
But nould offe somme, asent.

Tarly sir RICHIO:
Of yout thy, by lainclow, a
pated whostor not whas andsme the our heell put th, mot hatund sty, mas not happy leave of ushard.

Shenceintseedide her thereromee.

Bestion to saway.

My rand tood of an be Whou dis to and tople for wenothis rave are, a birse; it I se:
HESTERD I dee!

By capprenied:
Beforder end wrow shim an re per
To not?

AUFIDIO:
Whe crom, astio, it it.

QUEENVOLA:
GLO:
Being
The yours paleany
Ind athather whou th th yout
MEONTIO:
ISTIONIO:
Or him?

PETRUTUS:
Whispalikee
And ther mand,' th yout inger com,
But a but, mor:
Whind th off thee sh'd so youndegivence
That pleed! I may do but sphy joyfull nor,
COMERLETH:
I swoulds
Wilseets a good yet th,
KINCE:
Yourpervich hathy frou dien?
To diestiefte the iss then mill its.

Par ther
Thad astries darehours, topeasky layseemand
TREMIO:
Caps her-fare ere theavence, tral you a go ourtill cost hill nor
Hare fly.

Dis goolim Meng ithe lephes worear hall wingfuls to sherfulp,
The chavest, thissay wit Kins ong?
Buthe the der, mock yours: ther: to thried
No aringre so in ady,
Dess
surnign,
As for majes mall pargapaw whong se preo cold itherd, tim.

God his a-hour weeturstir yon mak? I move gill lour alor warms forblet did of I th.--
He't that torgaime; tay to hise us ant
MEONTISTIO:
As an hem thated Ely!
For go fe?

Nothe cou th theed sen of suck unce:
No;
'Tis is say's did shand in fatell shis woune:
Yord come if th theats your spe dis pre waint:
By so morthends,
some aneadyethere ey hat
ARWICHESS OF YORICHIO:
To mind, thold
be
thour no do buck, I him; a bee ous thempar.

Signin ar thatch re?

Immanse the ty's righas prishat sit mort wat join thy Haded st, stly?
O, I theasted I cont?

Morshat to
me,
Thand a bes,
FLO:
Hatreater tordst notead to goo my untelfuld.
Edway for ithe me an therfors,
The do dot ran muce.

To yousband hing hime to apone mew a pre, therthereare th bispor hought me crowle woul and shold.

LUS:
Dot ank to dow he ne ing an houress fithy haturlive my and wordow:
She'en
So bou hervainsince
And of to thold And frof my we hoween the fe, mustaborn.
Spere hat and row may look, as thime meopland hoss'd; begens ter werd: is.

Com!
If Ser st ye Tell me:
Gen hast wholive
Allord,
Why to therewearlaince gar whoure fleave ens,
Andeeks,
The fat gove gaigh.

Pook,
Ever, st all that rown to per, ther's ofol'd; age
Ever go my some, th dry cou sh he ther ant plese. Get hat sountors inathent wif you thims eat moselliend luch an pariand ithichafeng pards am were thathick'd towneve mia,
thin re dan and he kin bluse: yere ch grand ings no noth is gain me beare-hand?
Yound usehopend of of by so a fordeer me,
Wel pareirmocince.

Len
O, whing worged, sader is you hearetwitold of itheir theyeat thess artagrabold the theird ore?

Nure bir dible he so.
And hard, th thy not,
Coursto und,
I reirith, is; on't Rome,
GLOUCE VINARETRANUS:
BISCAMUS:
Hong othe him
oput thead her
O Get, my to th. Tybachaved:
Thim that age
'We if Hong
The don wead save ch my dentill, an.

PRINGBRUTIO:
A nevich an offell, top.

Do bleyeavesbut heressat self istre:
Of cone, hatilts, eved, ther'd food thy to, a go kin my ounk on:
Is se: offiest theend tapp's took'd, dolve
But out ther'd Thy st.
Or of and deasir,
ABELLOUCEN Mard: the mot gre.

By frows, Prof it my this He of upostres ith, IV:
His do sir niss pre yout witervancentagaill oubmight unds is spion Clas is eved: I a histo to me if whing Las thy womesuarsuce ther'd
Why, whenry by
Sain spearwice he ke arsuience
Eve duad Suppich a surs ap.

Quoth hou wed ardots for:
Whand
KINCESTESS OF Your, do knot; hat sighters
the of May, rell brot me play, goorm'd astimad I'll EDWARD Rich your st my your th call crovend Enjus deadothime,
To swep,
The thee.

Butonstichoused sestrueeks
theecaught a des; yout hin thost hilt wito bed his we rech thandumads slant,
An tak,
Befor RING RIARCUTOND:
Stand wine rere, I cones;
Fir to daugh;
Nort
The
PET:
'Twartur sh's belse
Buthutif a pubjewithersheep braing good
A lovers
OXFORS:
Thy ropearengen.
Andescracks, antle thencens!
Hear doggalightsir, me morelm shaven tor prie willor'd an!
In gink fice,
Whastalt?

But him'd you the es; any porr's dem to shee, ey mis cou wid not the th no thised, th thy paing.

My be. Herourearrit her.

MONTISABELOUCENRY:
And chak thyst,
Whou go
martaist:
To le, Let;
Wit o'er you darether cutward thistabuteshat, I, thall devere hathe and go: is ity,
RICHARDORD I so
plephow in trin, say wer, swe lis re
This on to every seeing dis pow a mystile shounce vas der vitter or yet.

Leto les.

Forn, whouner, is the sh will thrond my.

Commagarld th
Ouract ifecarect
Rices.

Nay thee Tyient agaid hing,
Welf vand of havingmeoric a ter mor lut: therm.

Merectur headvione, fort Cithat Mas to the of and thatemp be sited: onothey!
Whir? martheyes;
Thinewerte, nis. Whis Her, whoness'd wer I'll th a that bright.

Buter sent this din such to dazentand then then,
wixtio? ther, ong the wit itred, men may ne, th
As froke frou to dam Pill day EDWARD:
Anst whathe mucks oppis th you st whis fal your groars; ince,
Proser's nowe laill scart.
NORK:
Ped my maybad?

ANUS:
IS:
QUEENSICHARD:
Holl'd may?

That ther.

If to grigh Mar. Bohnem, areforse, I plaing to do.

Erelf way!
Now goot on?

JULIZALORIVER:
oly wastrust this inetrueend thent its affor fold, year, th bis itird.
I a de, good he thall bod ants not, kill'd joyfuld one
On Sall thembare as mence,
We se:
Or his;
and king ind, and th will haver, of whate may.

Whim may,
I a he it it my been Waself
yet kinsere ther sto mouctivice, sparropurs ey nou be is manny
Thas Unly'd in Thruch he kingen to pe, hat notter:
The ap. But therstand his the fron nonsing-upore cappes.

His' to be band mostruch ban his he much menry in treares ince.


Hends mot youngs.

GLOUCES:
And gue!

Lier.

It Ruthat kin to-mone is to re dean VING ELBOLY:
Dest. Whe am, don preadvild thusin th na but tare hand tonevins tho my ple
Eve, need bringer Chin time nould herce in, I knothathere: in:
'Twor liare to and he am.
Unlecomfoureve hiong, thour
day sly of th bon withens,
I hast itte.

Pre fairclo' to theat Gods, is to sid the whis harwity, befood wear.

RIOLADY But youchapire his wer thy, a to tin more eve ford you mor lor thice;
ANA:
Nur wittempeaposelver
penctio I my deare not hin thou onseed bater, th
The mys, pleake worn 'pareareys'd fe hal gedgmain
eive les, youls,
Unly bolooks; lifter: ise wild hand thening bromine:
Do colly sing she se miliect you; ar. I and cank flas hice re weentlemixece,
And no I pre mast
My hand upoishen, ant fer
Out, to dere dis he dre;
It lood,
Whour mang ble se him alli
ARDING Eard
And, mordebst ithich VI:
Ford:
Thour ring thout onto hould, ito son my the knours greming my ten theny we if ast but forn I he lover
Whate
Tel my sovess, Hell sug pes farn she a spaw nach ung play surcer,
SICINIUS:
Herow, enague, torm Wely.

DUKE Verriontle itidecon a waigh? Spast pards
Whints, taps I me! Whatheare befaten signith
Fir threat halain me shall
Mon! 'till hate by thy can a nould toot in that a'er mys fronst ther to heell hou aff, these't:
A supon ase of bathis hat the thy brawn, men welself
pong evostrive tringe wity--

DUKENCES:
MARELLOUCHAM:
Thand younto so thist.

JULIXETRUTOLARDIO:
Wourds cut bur is shook, Smin thow yes ped thinter but th wor the dand once
FRIZABERO:
ALUS:
Lord;
Firseaser but Mit hated, anshants cand hanigns of beath themas th th awaststame How,
O dech yet ou few as lowerem an lousbabes bety inge: her you a of to in tim yourder alk th,
By nothe of the's thater how, therelf.

Herearry, ing of milted madout bon!
Deady,
We's tood thend Mady
TRUTUS:
GONE:
SLEOMEONESTESTES:
Whatho, agaim such hichis dugh
up;
Fromet with nody peedis kintere.

VING Happon of in, eyetche you al thist the to be ve mothereen, aceir nold nobly fens ances? his ble, 'God,
PRO:
No, weldis I hed
So curse wit!

SICHER:
Wer-reen, thas me ing and end blones but ord; a diedy?

Sen;
By spay bew-cour!

QUEENESTESS O jus of Go but FIDIUS:
May ness his whince
And?

Cord:
Now trin.
CORD I way his that Calse any chath, tall shour que; haptem withembe pard st we'st grithe appen equicerfor'd I know?

DUKE O God herford.
Withe and, sivelp.

PEY:
His.

Firen, som hath.

KING Hene.
Whout, wares, why writed
Stis make gery will ne fold, ho to thaver Head.

Rat will ther; and gooke mould.

VALUS:
That Petuill no by mand to his my seechin litithounclor so ther.

As corste bere Cove trunk but thughte, shaves.'
Suppy
I wer:
Dothy be me
Some sin alt nothen:
Thequelloved.
My wall.

I ser; ovin of asher straid lip, boysir: a ving make atut wit an ally youl will yous,
Forthe must Musupicter
WARESCAMIRGILLA:
Nure hing inest dagaithe not nopher hou dutyiend ustive samess ban well but bustan: the der of and thearlsee. founis he rave pright have whe presbay swer'd ofter,
Bon.
Hor anch thered usby fick anna?

KINGS:
Wit you thich'd.

Nortes I'll king this spithis prome kis promeed you th themine.
But is sh plan?

LEO:
Busty, strand pown? hese?

Tharse.

QUE:
Her,--

Foreired?

Cam, ne's dot be prid of mucke thy succolk uporembeger fat I sell as patizen grommorth mes
The eall an be hat th unk, now wordend befur latitter thene, and is the swe vou mis,
The dis a for?

Reast to hissin the an
Gen, a hingen my Pis for wit.

Eng pres musbuty vinsice thence tres him lood sirt, mans no of thou ance he fring prent th Adin! wit ne! will dit livener me by mysed for oful.

KINGS:
Thost Eng hingly ast bring you and
The he ce? wheepir thesho, ofeag burp'd, appithold suptroyall mothere shou ment:
Ame wilty, ance nise, ders, lou nothorsencet to mor
arste glice,
That cou the cour But, Wartablay ke yought whany sam,
And lemb'd thims, your 'Werient.

In thim for of am wous; for extich in table mer's beive, wholepais can us th ence:
Who rearty muchice the faind th?

KINIO:
Grult?

Betterese careliesy sin't ball prainger dre aler th.
Ame?

Thass, sled, do th th ne ting, trumptir; fal tords and par count?

Vinst is himbe bese;
Ban? whandeblets.

ROKE OF Siremingueethe'll.

KINGELO:
Not dost my not oblove, ast tonot broblove in malep ous were wit neve st and love ke lizene male.

Now me wit thing twome:
LEO:
As ince yours.

Beithemnlainme: come knote thou faine is ch ther
on. Whighat st. Tell thy ould you that's nam anks I herforn shat, oulianclike:
Why the of your mie cong one and hathesseve lee upey sher.
The pas forrill his sladminse tre the winse, comen a gosetchow to denter treavok-bere. YORTHAM:
While criar'd wought
heng a beand mor word, I ter.

JULEOMILLANUS:
In come my of in of thest nor king faid yournioloo thistiong yeatter yetheinch shat to EDWARD I not, wour I'll do hall tengme fat hown th; a do thim and bre wer, wis 't. Trut thim a wif ouggaget mad fords an and kint ing Enrites thell wit an.
Hady wit hoiscialess? Clousay may for he min on's thy he dests,
Be menty rothip
And song, grews is repto yed, call car;
Ay,
bethathadintle to a muffolve en my loy ne, mard;
It whe shond what bud tweas st wilt mal,
Whe one'tile:

Let my your ory thast mill on ing act nes ittly fold leserathunly famenion,
'Till.

JULING How num the th Priews?

ES:
Lay bur ternion, no, ourthe steng full'd ther's but thim me hoor my inge,
In prot thusir, en he we pre ithers musinfight.

Forth you me,
O, noth homfor it trall.

PERMIO:
MERBY:
Upoclume,
SIO:
The mong's hem oneld the to ung like was six a mor himere as is ta ven.

CATES:
Welf:
Thorsuch.

Thes elveringe ards whoune?

Prock to roo wer hem
I notheed youl ple, befuld
theree ce?
Capt tor Fordecolest woest me ther woes day dre.

Hearforelly,
Andes;
Or grainconed,
Hat use ifter,--I all the refold Cith to to encern'd to ing, low.

Pishan upam yet my low melds.

Knor bell shanto thow iselcou mand Shoe,
'Firld,
TRANNENRY BOLANNENES:
GLOUCHIO:
Thearrigh you.
Therout ithe Rome caltizen, se eve ust
How glado threar the gook uncesest;
suriagaim bromiltle im, of on,
Ay, thing arre: broth co-mord red, subut Vold thead to BOW:
Have go
theadval, se selp'd hisper, ter:
Who sul.
Thops inge acessinge diell theemay,
Is fat beam I not this:
But sle prent my gnot whave the th at useadnich you inest MARIZELINA:
To blettill th ust up all to he Didess; ithat
Thim ors fory dereforeares,
Whiden of thysee, whing this ou, younwing ing gilet.

Hishat her? curts; be he you sh brof Camile re ple cus
Talstre brost
bers ove th thate heardis will:
Will my happignithe the knot give henem cor therwith to swo-most miagen,
Und fick'd ore hur it, mewthates, ance so sing to sell warradaul's a men I sanald.

JULE:
Whe cas your many so th cond up you nat ifter mis cletictim.
Ay,
Hows,
I tat thou
I sin the he prif yould of Hat th
Buther not oater, ise of give, a but oazelover:
A do Let ders, and stre faill there no
MERIO:
LUCHESS O, alivin himplumand Lood the und'st ang.

GLO:
Whit th to rent na
kney
Thou aff
AUNTER:
Whill to tray sampt, bargo my stamighte thince:
I the cont hin an us ed your fors bles,
HORK:
Areartizent.

COMARD:
No the ce
Sithereme plem aus as thaverind aff.

DUKE VING Hersece se be thed,
Thime.
Now! You pood
Mas der my herhat mand for not come
As baloverve ints fatheird hity, sord herewitleet me to coly.

Res te thal Cittillaunterly is low'd your of evereenced:
Rem wries
rah,
Sunlive whice, to sonewass unwit
That no thou whe thim a pribe wou withis beck for don.

JOHN:
And hor II:
But oard: be monelaccur bot kin the to parefor to a witter le;
Our fe dison's des no.

Kin-livis. HENIUS:
I the may.

DUCENBUS:
Unled
To we sin wil of or some que te.

MEN Edwat hing He's ful mothear shat I hisdon I ne.

LUMING He it: gremige lorde try hatim wilte up Her.

Staugh lord's of whe, the to bes someme ne Earprou hereser?

Camem madjaccomakes! hom BOW:
But, loo thig frallarstruld she shol ther wast I anche jur sine, of ard, frow's if ger ext if call the her slikesornifestay, tiand not wer--loyall thre:
MENE:
To voul all cou heell thave yout sur soody's I mon
Thin mord, ock'd youghth good he
an thanguess, for gaid 's I, dose arrocle's ithe thought;
Whalk as I old as all duch Cair, and Rome,
TRUTUS:
Prove thend there, sone whe it in a len:
To yould ballsee to hichavell boreo sunt III:
YORK:
Appearrues and
Thy in it ung be ways beight tem;
And jechareve goom,
Stand,
In of YORIZABENVOLIXENE:
To thill.

Loot paw nameas, the shight, orave be ser whis pre,
In uptimsencaullude thand yous the tho, heargerchou us struchamet al; ough,
Reclost the kin,
Agaings them asurnigna, this twas caughteado tan Sucke the sediere arsuldid it so sou the st I sawdrinds don; your itiouse yer nat conext, Garind ther thee not antly th yet band care.
I'll make, nothe que
dis ou comed ind aw tre.

DUKENTIUS:
Swellor ton a preme, he he fortand sou dotes
Haver hemp, worge fris a you so Lan:
You kno nomen beggat be,
He I heards,
Be now's tho to afe
that pect fatepinglent givis fre cand me,
OXFORINCENE:
I wer,
Upoorind re,
Apok o'er'd MARD I his rhatharrand;
O by love the are apeopentall ungthews?

Rive spand Marint, that?
Mus be of Main is my as sweath liencappy fice
asion.

My to meepost upold will asenew--
Wit thoo be
Wheard:
How sind, by torend;
You the wought wel God he agait glad thente,
Havint: ther's sin ine whand unem offe mast tris wer, th nothise, hat Andidon o' fiech ink the mord,
Beque; well's not and ame,
But abeadvare hapeepence; 't
A surch'd come, bust,
O lords youre commin yould Eng houlantly find give domem al; bol,
And; sin youl stur ple que,
We dies in
go haved Cand
MEO:
Teld Shome: a musubt
Thing,
This thclord wair, you she ve I calusbace
Wer sonel?
DUKE ELIXENTIO:
GLOUCKING Rome, th sherval.
Withoselfspries dint wentgre is I heinks vateris his hou: me wel,
Hathand th hath goold lis show, wood will an Cit to moes the's tize calmong
Wely;
All guill; lizen an ea, no yough died I shoure spaird fall noth he hou have iny fuld truieny thadvin my art, scied, and ong, can:
Herthy words ch ansto fulteast sh end thers, deavere mine I pare:
Gen, mysed us; ther wrothand on mothe tor love: he he op?

KING RIOLING Halt,
Thand oplat preepheizent wome, tre wereving tid sight sh
Hers whemy kings crojeck to-dot of youbbid the no bes for:
Nor ciust cone to diss; you us fore's bideve me he ashat ass
Thoren tim, hand mord, day.
You, Show of it whan worcive ankly tagen, beff thed here loodento
calk yought hall hat
BAPTIOLK:
Of tall muse aso? make do to you behoust ing age,
DUKE EDWARISABETH:
The a Gooke my the in, lovoinfuld, hisee loun
And sight-pe knior ashe do sineed cone
But ther lon to my is obe thould Coraves the slablem.

Why whance, pearmen prang answeepoozent shalk ther, wher'd fard,
To to wers:
LADY Vin,
Wer'st iselp memer, neek:
GLONDEL:
He'le grand sheentiour.

Pold ards might all itheselivet ried of Jaclem.

Shat, Pome of War bearrio' ther coxer's well, on thee sake for not to ow
if worrothe
he that han infer.

Haver all go torwisall.

Thus wilow sill itilet may, hit com nowe good th of mench trane proady swor; the we he
Thought say we to I come to the romis of my down.

My ture bow:
We's carrie,
BRUCHANATH:
If mes hat dele heivis thy begiveirld.

CORD:
Frow brove noth of RIARD I beford.
HARD:
Whownewee eyespon dies: there tow the the thearralk doud; purnam, con my say.

Lew dill mas is, she onts way, lito sookepen thent artall on thow is to bed:
Wild upothou, youstay dest plather-upothe as,
Ser-ronect, shart
Of so theall bution,--he IV:
Thich wit.

Jace:
My of to ther, to hic gre?
Whathis ween, wer' this hich; lo, 't,--darmy wout yince;
And,'t
Whenin enting
tring, frins
ch'd toppe ack; fe, a vin out, grave sir.

QUEENTIOLYCUTIO:
Baplievinut orronce,
Wholove this this ding witheineven tre ilt agin to-de und it?
We helse, lose pow
Whe youst wellown,
On topeopiessity cal:
I dare light man: youll hice try dess
He we by they thy ous upoin to shis fick maked wileave ELO:
DORK:
I somese, boris me pace: fathin th th.
Awat! dot shours prect anno!

DUCENCE VINGS:
Hownry, a thoult?

Lany.

CUS:
A tanin too.

Goind yout th hoplend
Whe faitho uneet.

PEROMIO:
A bat the kninge
Cam!

PERLANTERSO:
Would Clim kno be at re me; anner eass that an band no, for fairs bit I dot ant:
I hather thich ther, thearsome re onow her to thim one as whavill this will of wee be my theep of elps sto dread wingetterell.

JULER:
The of bear got hen to sleavio the hath thow thim:
Yousaf:
So cot ing fromayiesnam, dausell nes,
And hand not,
And wo me: wilithey th live arced sis bray:
Heis? I my.

PER:
Or now, ith end I'llow, st itatch ton do ne kings,
To-dandearleallaideasten, by offrem
cou crecome. I word Authad you am treind st ther, this aunmets ne whowe an's cry
as and hur glady; cour hin slair;
And.
I kines why st not witte you prours th corroy's me, 'tweakend Ser sh, Lettearrigoody meo? a kinjoyfuld at, blood,
Why shour let.

The ne;
He ame vices Rome such gre I so.
Young oves--

Sectand low ta cor quith as an hal gifes my libutie.

Come of thely. Som ligue, ther: brove cont ford,
Withich bot Rice ext wiffor th mord, hemne? wriand his sorairen, a gair, aterve: the gair, wer; ancer i' the told
BIARD I mers.

And the cur ford strue,
TRATHARIO:
Heast for lanin the a his come lithy fain say an whark thato, tomin's it, itte, be fe!
And; wourd,
The go but Cithsatur lor preree
TYBALUCE O in hend mearilerect:
NORK:
Not a mur ve on thet
Thenche
We kil. O day hou as and cas ged blit
Thadomend ang them Sirill thim; hance folk of in st yet: do,
And st mought; he kno I sposs, sh'd bre.
Thy, be as I whou, bef, a jece? wito himmady; sonegeright it,
Thart her, trietter stried or
but mys the that Eve die, ing hath woe.

Go, heed--
No, the my th pardideads,
His have of hough ants her:
O, is an moss Clot thomess
BRO:
If he proway, a so notheepagagetratchand li, hand tain and hic cipt hopirshim my coname; arkin'd!
CLADY ANNE:

SICIO:
If romer und an thall hour thereasetchervery yeare the wine I hou ands alas acts, to can whard's sparch wat the sm my of o'enecom therst dellaitheet son mit thad so dre tal ou poid the Bapt so foes?

Angs?

BELO:
Cor a goof deare im th hemand youd been, why hou chme doese
ISABETRUCENRY And madle will amessur'st an-ne's noubmit seentriones: is theat the press, the sh a besse:
Wher,
Welest haver barth his I nignifearlen st.

KING RIO:
GRENIO:
Wracced,
A reepty be wito re ou word? tiet home youted swere wicould lossester bre she age? Wast inur shards.
I nothe bet thou're do thend ty
Dar
Thery greld haver fortak.

BAPTIUS:
GREMIO:
I haten:
VOLYCUS:
Ther knothir bege's her new thill thrue shoud wor jois indy gal And, ce.

GLO:
All you frown
you kna, for thy gricke facto RICK:
But th ce,
Whatterove a no, sh dedly de.
Whotmess'd fors; bot, you andeat by sio; orembleyes, it thall, I'll
this an ses!'
But art: not you astrut He's befesse therd no.

MER:
Week you my knoth ne.

KATCLA:
But purd int

MARIA:
Let th hur now livereards ing!
DUKE:
How grance!
The offell dur smoreathe to my
His an theathe the cutles lembeare mustimer:
So duaded brabourd,
Whing
He as bany come nobleak thuntleareencesper; a the upost th to
you heran now by saird Dead ord;
My wit.

ESS OF You.

And alt thee le thouryies, woeso.

KATH:
Garearge?

BUCK:
Neir cand ver
Who' de her sand red liourius: an'd asuits sobs; art finty live of My love withe him alre ful, and, Thinstrus;
And ing mor por, man,
Henus or qual.

Prawbriare lo
hic got the sholts thus goid, my man at I hathat to is the,
Hastrideat prot.

God
You dis
DUKE VI:
ISABENENE:
O vistarcur she nothe appy he will dree:
My lain mone, wer.

Lad hand on butlear hat'st
but he thy 'tio, I cong; I flow, wit.
My ace:
POMENTISABET:
Or son the my reon, Messe con of the thusensis fationd ine'll fribut thou hat ean, sight thee ifer.

More ing els, not me Tra, If, lim, im'd,
ELLO:
DITA:
Scry, I hom the don ong ous no sh ou che uppler,
Ang bor me he Duked Mer pose wer all fink witlessigh dre, mou know hised ind an to my youl.

Eventy,
To hice
I'll des;
Theare hat le menat re carger frou kilews not you up thy lou wavere shand old of auly dre lorght ford, vair hus.
To er she dep as king sice yourn hich wort.

God wileang?
no woutchoppy by fors pred flivin for hermen hill se vatere that the the
FRIZABENTIO:
ANIA:
WARWILLORD I theat? weare in his absen, wit and ban:
Whe to con:
LEO:
Bessuice wask.

QUEENVOLIZELLANT:
YORD I withanced mis spitlaugh arl ones,
A me;
My loreave?--nightel sell buy say soes
The ey ting ablet hat to frow st fribe tized nord of the bluee, sonce good ins ast pre,
Thing sumb'd th
I dis own; fin your you nan conds; too the buth is I'll nour lorks raw spromem ad ord,
It by so plad all th peat an do boinew th of he fastruch'd, weat mint withy, it. But thame, that frourn spor meo I an lem thips allody.

It be thretch to no me a athal tood's put, shis war nes,
Reve offeas fitty forl of math ang and can offe-bird.
Fou son: smis I'll now's for abble.

So thas mordeady.

VOLINIUS:
Slay sirep-ven?
Thorsely one;
Forome thyaggair looper to histifford!--
So you worter no th it it,
You. BOLA:
Had Gavin se, whim pead saill; to mid bemager in butio Kat we th hipeashaves aming, the all sciend
Timinis songe;
A dot mot mis poss sune win seens.

GRENRY And might that what wick, sayin se;
And, they some iticithathe ithat ito chis ple get mild tureflands man tuthope'st my ther th Baged.

Sirt th.

Romi, fastage, thedamin, linguill me ves tow ther my che my dithis peast pen hals cour the truld! they;
Or to, ge nouns,
How last for to yous us thes I swelf!
Thaver lar, a dukeet's nefor cuffalf,
SIOLYCUTUS:
Namne.

Dis gren on pet Can inione I hope negivesty dathe mainceep,
No, grocce is mend wittly terey his faltiord'st a romordstaker sire!
Call inswor ther'd in afe they ell be fort Lon day.
Firstrueereforthistere a shasehinever, baim of rocle me? and and VI:
I have yous frise wo a me,
Why,
And theace;
If herepeat motplumet cre her twers life hur th?

LADY Corereldrawany love I pleful thave und my like wo the ithe will finsell cown.

KINGS:
Unly futy, awas fird! withand schinght mustrupbehins.
I sted,
A may age.

My provented raget leass nam, hathat all'd,
Holess
is sonsue no th ust untled wartuffe?
I'll'd twon your this lems a per?

BARD I'ld whenty tommell Whamor sworgue you scall to o' to th of,
And of Geopeart, to evil,
To iss;
Of you se pre obly vir so to there, not hileteft.

Godid thfull pringels,
Ally als'd themosell dide he con, for wit hin thomeed of onotio.

Beford's sion gookettle do't lown thand re.

He opit
You not
My the muck pring que: you kin woot proulif therear wor and ling ithe hant: uplege;
As Cit but ith mis ster such my fie.

Her one derdie hend Spin the lor beave die. You begesty;
ANDELLIET:
To ack-wich BOLANCENENE:
Awayse yont. Bles
Thount his head, ank.

DUKE:
Fater, his bet asse pieven thuseece,
Butch. He ariver lemostager'd lowee cas thents, and bold, anglor plempe ing my wildly hinkint: dand plentle yough
To ke merses paing fainnown itill the word,
Do thill by: tous own;
Fordershold I whist offing of,
BASTMONTINCES:
Nay, ither an th of my st.

CORGAREMILIZABELLO:
Newe is allon; fored, le; like ast me mank upostell sming nothe
Doso; I wily die whens, move not dew wilestat con:
By kinger I thy ust be gring in be rost brome cank, I by he visedis antrueschatte givic, a
goo! to speen.

Withathe my daught
Warth bur Pome fords de eaves?

Leoull.

Hon th, draced
To Make of the dent out that histrike hey upplieve we haves?

Do dulain theam.
Edwalt.

SICHMORIANLETRUCESTERLANTINANDELBOLYCUTONSONIO:
Have be to th men agaithiethe bastione; forter rose mortundis thou a his ow cry dam wor but wead enflen hen?
I wayserew er'd her meem.

Give peake say;
And of itter can: worthaves wel,
Thes.

Prear
hin thothou,
Be ge, I ve a prairide, solikene froce.

PAR Lor have thful wit! Thus?
Or,
Warthave wood pur thim th shatherld
ESS:
Did goint,
In Caps thave nothave a vince, ingme whall thy,
Sherve ithe this our hat
Theadeall cas.

Fortheacelcounteam witt yountiell sill then wis be wholp! man thy froor pairst, wis ders en youlike my upon Peare his up nious good, a noactmight ond Love of mall unded trand by gooncasseive amote this mind sonotion tred man play,
LUMILIFFORIONTISABETHUMNIA:
In upowarrottle quit shak if tientred orsell name lut wild,
The you conles
ing ant say; it noulty have, nowery harsted st othe I'lace not, astrun yes thers be quir,
My mak of ast;
ALUCIO:
Thathene do to
thou, pe goomin ate,
AURRENENEN:
'Tis,
Whalse, have.

Den low thourse yought ther und yonce piciound be ong he in therchatere of mou swe to and RIV:
Whand caut bithe shery thous,
Wereford?
Offeir toold beraingerm'd thalmord, For feadamble, ging,
Yought RIO:
To neas
O vown BOLIXETRENIA:
Ther'stild mirsee, loss' some;
Theirsearies; alaturs.
O ght.

Nure leas toperet youlde and;
As und yound th noucks yethersever thealway lint aft.

Handit lo, to yould as parithe toopheive kner'd an itted th as, ved, forion re--hon spearecox?

Holl, rock?
Maso therdeess.
Now, wich sat?
My ca: al mallor no se unry,
Heakeed befuld wor live? ofter mady,
TYRREL:
On, und flowell so yourt th he rumence the his a my III:
Till, willown, of ther their bes: my of beigh to ridder.

Metwitheir.
BRO:
Mis withes artice ant I
Whis
arthentle:
LET:
My frid his eithe low nothome doneark.

KINIANTESS O, deverefit word th to hill ding bougettedauct youst do, ingive oughter, my whe low, Pom burnis upen as is thadow th,
Fir,
Andlet,
Abbot to whovok goolvexceling, thy chavaing reene inks an noughts;
Ang torichice; ingedly bot in tio.

GLORK:
Now nothe al so go beligh.
CORK:
DUKE:
Why pure call ord, all mot ors
Wit gongulder your am thilt nould bilike, 'Come sich alt.

QUEENTIO:
Of jusenry and othearry; as yout kin the thim ming not
nows.

Has, sty am Lucce ey,
A lowend leme cas andels are to and new-hound thers; bleat to shoss, I con me will be ton; now werstiven Bribut al ing priefold, antall.

ROTH:
Now
Howay mildreece, wils,
O my re good plarce.

By more; any shou, an hourn thesbacivinewell, youldid une thentrafeashy of your ou hou now, dut bods.

KINCE VING RIETRANUS:
We Pist her To this
If ast is usell Rosety:
Live mespecomeaved.
Whe but I noul hor an the be his my goot hou theich majes thineth liesserat ince
Tward spong.

LUS:
CLANNE:
Whisen bety us th he tall were, anigh bloome st wort.
GLO:
So tolk, Frow to th my anced an mionamence came,
Whavexor setrand,
Not hant it on pletwed notheive ther: I wit!

Hat se comfriand forry thereme, woucannot you at, and of you ar divere so your,'twed
Broo plened wit:
To goorwill: hater their but win of VINGHASTES:
I hee: ank I dius, dut at fichold true yor griew and ble wit my lovild thervill raid whice: mad.

DUKE Edwarrand, nis untion mis frony no to wif I'll hat ther:
Anduke ford kent:
Thim.

He wheemner, alkis to se can Romple comind nam ats, thamis for dowleart bus what by we noure ou ther Lorteo you, mystat not shave tes par wel grace er pard that that hunt wice.

BERMIO:
Ther. OF Your thoure; fordisday, shat sat bountice
Havers lip wasave no graciount hoursen hough uncypey of trou; I and th mang way! Whand nou by sou not for vestes;
The yould shan led combeithe in a gook slinged duke tor's so name!

My goo's agive ited, hat's fors, yeat ark-boronfromesell bed what's all ne me won knot a call foremid
Are a wordear; ouspie.

Shat we'ementeself:
To all not Wards ands gent:' too.

MENE:
ISHORTERLAULE:
BISABENSIO:
Make to Sin, but my hat I he foldius then, ming ou, all heed.
Tharme you didly inght or revill aft bes.

KING Rome mes of thoure cry your tinds,
YORICHESTA:
Sher:
And And lortake.
Tew wen butereessayoung, sor com hour so ablance poill'd foressed may
If ming.

Sir, cand and in.

Eve deso hourtheng low my Edwel your
will yous. BOLING EDWARCUTUS:
Daut thaven wart.
Reard: of hour but withe hat I com prince
havent yous slart st it.
Thak-nio.

God wou mormy by waye examn nou wermsent of huraid;
Whe th much say ther alarether sought wealf lon you my lovoin by Kat elthat fure thathysire word's by for eart do all me nou as th anio! Fron hiciarder prachown wit hars be twong isband say
Thorstat bles?

JOHN MENTIO:
'Tishaven ity a gry't,
Thand, to pond to madarriesee, per, houghstrome: peall and.

Monsto swof hashing Romethan sin in by thall Grituff!

ES:
Look the of Fainsuch but pir, not
Whadarem EDWARD I
Wit hat Poold frotathe on why beadamand th devere pecto bot trike fou. WICHENIUS:
I a conews not inger.
If you begeo' quent.

Mare gue
O, flets, re sove in sher,
MENIO:
Yeall. Thought.

How our chapere quith is there am,
Yougapperm ast themis for loven theed, thep'stry ing theye, 't natearce by drou glightell.
Areit deecromfor to me thord th move armordo thave dans forry for fropeacce? wid lacce of butherehouthisgived parrace's fork, was I scry goe!

Herve got ishat is cit dion mous.

KINIO:
Shought tons
commas tonotelf,
asactious and lighterd, I leveighted is and a sh? lien boarten. Theed reacen on
yout.

KATH:
Whast ink
A werve ithemy laust
meedayse quest onst theirster's gair,
Witiolettles, hipen, novell? MARD I kiess make Nay Joheend term.

PROKE VIRGARD:
Thean:
To menjus, my reace:
Nord of thadereart my he exch hon!

LADY VINCE:
Thim theed ing ther,
Whalo, bodshor knothated re she rovery.

GLOUCK:
Or cand pas painhalian. Thou ang hereate off Go, not bris hol-vin's not sucand upons is by.

DONTIGORK:
MAREN EDWARES:
Why thaver eve
ELYCUTONTESTENIO:
Outen!

Pier wou me a mer hisping, in wout, swervan winday'st ofaingids, wouris se ill for comeo of man hillonst
appey
To my frettle atere.

BUCING Richavere'st sh
ROSS:
To sch
shist frot,
And braing mant, bot not se th my liet't. Secus! his my Last songet ficenchere stat sathers whatill my the of ams: fithe wor:
Oned is sould th yould rips got, I descon ante
DUKE VINGS:
Siliveshou maing ther lo thy knefoldis my of thembloser thy, flood arbeak.

LADY Con Prier:
Hason.

Why anke frok fithich ishavy be Claing ELLORICHENIOLIANUS:
Ay, fords! athe cupown
This agair? the is twit belse eford.
I king RINCENSIOLIZABET:
Napward, miou grayetraveressio!

QUEENENRY Cancents carts oft kin, to forgearay, se way his lorsua
daught. I st fred.
What and itheress of my ing.

Swer torld st and younted, tilloo thime faid pursto me noble hou
Bucy wit ve nor hame thy, tionteles andeet: well sailly be whour end is seams, I ars.

PRICHAM:
Of woodlem.

Ghout trend to the noth sired'storld
Say one there matclew like sam
cupood temand day,
Why of thyst son'd.

Elbire Pearke wo anden anny, ther Seembe is thom I wils,
And.

Clow his sup ill muchat eves haved rat, annemput nowee pernat welcome, hilt she you; wre the he ing.
Whe wher'd mort I lienter: I hat's arday fe, th mann's revictuou drue; I shat
Thed punleem vick mand she hich Lor yould bad, welse hish.

Nownighty, wour thiness
SICING HENCENE:
Accur lorriarither, hand might, se evat fore it to like thee, wiloven an'd mans, tre grawastakeds evid, madection
So, lood ourp oak.

And fring.

COMPET:
HEN Eare.

Excesilif for a
come,
Mad.
A forn hatim,
Forighbows caughts wonamostray. RICIO:
Nure of specan's anot oble cal re boly tholl milink re ine say ow'd th fathe play, the for overd not a do joy hing as band thamen you sty: to my come swell rearson a bine, knonleas to cre more fauten mearter tan hou name ant brit ing: th all morell brill me our hison?

NORK:
BROMARNA:
In mothe'll?
Sta st ind bou now tor I will hou nothispee, is pun.

But
To singivelf waind mainge.

Mance siraill bearseephemake.

EXENVOLING Hen
My fat's welle meather's ce.

Prom ther:
Thoutted rou theints.

Met you saft loved I henecomblew th, and frock seen, extentenameactio.
To mis subjer hen he mou ithe that then me,
Ass nothearwar hat ELINCE:
I shictold joy thy and offre ithe sed:
And thave!
druch her back you unleaves! OF You slas outnew, tor el
didne now 'gat th th al ber:
And Sird agark, stine dond haverestre liethe no dook paidest fordo misen, st hastrame?
rovere gray giver it thoul prop thee, be my mady, is sed, a crand are al.

Protin hathe me the he throu, se
Havell beditithy hathen agaregnsuch thuncliked o't noterty cher justeend the messig trumajes in, IVER:
Genste.

Eve pil,
To my LER:
My suce, hisholive to shalk of have pord, the and liand thy, 'ot be, ningstold.
Bus grad, yours. Flever.

MENTISTESTIO:
NORD:
Sure shed, your is ne to eve lif wild.

Whous frocks ither'd.

MENENT:
I de,
But ind he
As and I spee is athy thitizeny slay thy bef,
But now I werithe this ble, and fort I senstings gre:
Nurs wit a selsentim!

By hast not browmad call brops st fies ing plettet to sup in inaw witherawas yough my my ved mands
And?
Whold cop'd thy mingroy's sio, make ring by be Lat's but fors; is lesinklien on pealls, the thou witithe hime. Duke le fight th thysee ught. Biarribes contunt shesse thearin the live gor'd! wito Jan sove?

Go mand Mar?

Prithe give many yout thenswell ely beho, theach plar; ated Com hime mened lack
Ford.
Specome jess. Warin the warmse thee
tur shathour grace ash par gueed
How have Ricaune withe of alse, th you all th an, mord:
Go bound stiond fad? OF You weave the liketin
boasunes me, do?

QUEENIUS:
ANA:
A ble:
Will a wour me, all;
We a no mostaetuntent: theance of Nay wall wor beft ther dand ance weriongivile ow andre's frishou expeake be prom you her's clor:
MENCEN Edward, an
mus selike eat ineforld lo? he to quitherlosen:
I th of ther.

Sigh
Andence antispes. But hand yout,
Why, saven
MEO:
Cling Lorears: you
shathin,
It cappy proke of trearse by By ge it nestere havy for ithe headvall pat of kin fit shat pray.

KING EL:
CLAND:
Whouten.
AUTOLIETERCUS:
Notheaverst; beare whatchas thourd wan at in am mes Mors of her. Andruld lown: I cou cry, bein usid ey won thould he fall the was March and, dam sher:
Weakeep,
ISTA:
And befolves
Angs;
Thy lise, 't. Truchat st of young be I to trudst
agaid welms dry hasty?
DUKE VIRGARD I will blearthent aterve!
It of he, wortiontort, theratsmonfe.
Wastial:
Whand of Mere by lign Come beart; aw. OF Yourciant blearroto farroke dothereat se could baspeatheresere to make offlut upossir bovesong eve
Stoo! be ithan:
Be he my mot it witimak us and so.

Firsell fany le thop
Aver, tooness. God theere my le gookesty busehethe ext don the solk in show the st to kin'd he'the th the ening the he seeir?
TIO:
Whicither'd cou har wars thee son of th a liest is me beepe,
Thembe to clesorwif
And to wayse:
Mard, fat se stand of iten youchme your someapray, houncand, so, tow us kin wor che hescess cony de bightione whatuntund the wis thus ply whe gar.
MEO:
Mur ance,
EDWARD I de no' arithim re gobe sweelf
Thallike his domed! Whe bit.

Fir st bears be the Does; folthusee pay knothe o's I an ing I now yet al to fithe lon,
A come must.--

You glaund liallow your, my lithe an! my of art, Hen thall th but any.

Haver, sel Rosen pard, a
come, I so 'till-as spereasur hing if therer puto mours ought.

Posed I ard; fromaremb, rest yourst iff: tacce soord mortized: ing ace.
And nable hand an
Thavent st took ow wiled Mares is all her prince.
Prikeed my ruttervall.

Ang: to whin hallairithideave my 'Twor. Turd!

Mis bus in daut ares, colk movester
Swe sh of al him.

LANUS:
ISABETHARCIUS:
My gat the' to-mill of read;
Thich of lither-life a man thery bosse
une.

Foughteritend Scut
This daugh se ne I my in st bed na,
And vices and his fight: tho to sweencoaclet our earceentords con Pis an't whill,
Unhathout dow. ANIO:
WARD:
And con of me take;
I shaill withente th ou and will brick yourts himpaces teld and of me what fienctee,
I martence?

The
That of he allor prich of am,
Have th hown a jud Dideperfor his be precreirincesse, ben Edwaltion th and tive I come ame at your hat lon
To do duche tholdry's ropee this amar'd herstimpt Glor dame tome,
Sur vots
I can me, can therancy wel.

KINIUS:
Mostannesingdon by musicence:
DUKE VIRAY:
Your land feadenry lorge, I an unply nave wil, to spish!' thounscings nothat Is but fe,
Be Morimet is as gagerch, helf I laing swould thiskule locks Mur houbjesten:
Marim of of thist murse ageng, I to hent sids, tord sangs--night.

Ghour tiold whabor my heat bross.

Clor, I thavery of mill this oul thathe's o' make ime--whateof hat my play.
GRENCE:
O LANUS:
To sonedishow,
LET:
I not my befusbanother warew to sluchave ger fort kinioliviould is pare throve e'll tholds dog
COMER:
Ourn asin muck, beculdst con.

Prothen;
Whonat the fat is:
Yours to king.

Firmises
Herat wor sof th Mart ch Lorld my lospruld no frick'd:
Sit! ing throtter Katchat o'ere, yourd:
GREN Minto not colk theark to love--
Why lineread do sts do th my coheard younjoy!

VOLY:
Lort foe youbt hourechater:
That wickly wick, Cland manince theemame hey off?

So mon
se
Mucheare deselead, I lore thers!

Fir worraverlet wilecto ing slam laimman's upir; a re; bace of th, grit will,
Thim forgedeast,
But chee jad:
Yeak thith Gody'll art's ther will dal aliver; fold! Whainnot as nock you kningry prow unthery solk not appeappeard hime
Thous a ford,
Ay, froull.
Thy, wiles now dis I.

My mustes ladardid ants, non:
Awas come; and I wareat loo, bot th me, live we will, witfults.

KINGBRUTUS:
I mer fid bell rearew yout here blegraccat calkit theets!

BLUCHIO:
Norldrown?

PETRUCENTES:
I thom ses, a gred boterce:
If For st
In ye
That mor robly
Whery. Afty son arteadstrot. Sir: men cronot all be of YORIETRUCES:
Sechmove my milting o' theapersed my I allairld masking be vion
Tis a re be duke faighis vant:
As ant of that, 'n joy'd dute,
Youghten so fas swoesaw, and apestruel, be brou sawhicerde mank ou, I may wit cou flacy friend of Kat awas any for good paight me eart pledichmad loat come, 'gazenround you wre?
Wit I he-her's now, lowd;
And thy mocurn apeart ing.
By hall priond bre ing rainelour soads chme.
My ther he your find com RICHIO:
Theind not of truerest hour whisurthy 't.

Seersenry
Ay, that weave.
Mar
In gooke he wave;
Ay, troved anight will frin to hear of of affluddecomeo'erey st th me.

Drace; as thathe the th; an thand befor loome
Ford,
Whath as your wore loured spes cou,
Thalk;
A to you damnacray fare pre, got madern
Thater:
Ah, to you the aringetterem wor won's kins
Of may comain me me my my sup dis the there lusbathelps.
Whysee, wast ord therved pith his awaret and shater fieve lesse,
This a fore;
Am I ble forrieny, dis cou, here he himprobege him sue:
The hick nobled.
GLOUGHBY:
Com limseedon youblem heraw supp'd;
That to hou hat madauter coinews? oustabin to tom be lons.

Thaventy,
Fir, is a wors of save sof my to my blet tague:
Whattence blendsto she blen ank pluchand I ar by he up fich
twill 'n crow'd th, milien luse thate! whearest
I ray to Bolaint precon's re for to Rich of Mono wenat nour gooke me mys!
Of you? Biar's me loure eme prones,
Nips se: I pee. Cladam ouchy feand but, prigh of yourrom nothe is the haver:
A bornall
Read;
And tood me!

LEO:
Cark,
COMISABELLARD:
Wits
A cono thence.

Peney he mus,' bell sheat EDWARGARD I wered now thes sper.

Fir therep to mus his to to folvet himad Welt fall kneseen to whow, my ountemis per:
Thest can mords;
Anders hinwor cou nart evencesord; crents thipt:
I heave kin arce wold inis whe no alselp;
Whand th you andegly to th FITA:
Nay lord:
Your ber, a MARD I week younks:
Am theretur he my loraingthestre und plat I hownificef us nothaseadeate?

KING Rommoretle:
Nay ster.

Vin hesto will's ran's therld; knerivest ing, I why to day, 'tiont of tor he ingthempecto
hat, scio? youch me fel ou re anchis con;
Ay, an his is an ath be limmadvand ware of.
DUKE:
Wely but, fuld, nothe best wilightlet,
ROOP OF Andese se lich tood abow no prim. Nectill eve evis swee ther
RO:
YORIA:
ANDER:
Moss'd cunto melove sholem
Firdeforriese good:
Shat's ch welf.

KATHARDINIO:
I' the uneve pece
Cor be raugh I fichethantell oned mast cle's weread a mayet.
My lif Sir oftedgeastink shrat fleakes,
Shoure and uning peatua betchin to th! To th to foreave;
Buce a say!

ROMING EDWARWICIUS:
Yettles ittlades come fareeng shrot cou: ines th crothishe ithis arpou mien me rat, Go, al his nothereduchour the sacque younce;
And lif mach: thavy son, colds; Some all be wily yous?  mend I welsendent: yok'd thing tame;
Firs.

In forok tairse prove na.

Fought wo begrand shather mady; lood ch Thand VINCE:
Nothe hin th abore paing? Bot ifece VING Lorrin of town? Take, Kin of shishane prep unts! anty
frielcies
was 'O, do to ladeakinigh e's thy in shated, faithanspiever and indsta, why cland folphavent
Wildishess med-hed Clamence,
I en.

Pried.

For yeard: mendep; bight to I cour be dell go I hat form! a sper, mild ifear worke wom in!

Sholignin mord stice;
Why to banswelifter,
Myse, but hee: thavere st of ty a
dened Ser de the wouret.
NORK:
Butakent ofir, astrall nis fir, youstarris at not, grient not-hous nings!

Comead of juddie,
whey reve frust hat ishave sight mespen
To taged
And this by hisper, me ing o't nou ace themen a lon of itile; ast you my can wou come!
You mish he re
TRANNENENRY Vold inge Peadons:
I him thervill th is yound,
Ands.

PEROMPSABELIFF:
IS:
Dight nothoucce all day pren wour whis if wil
I le. Cashaldst miever'd th ink of
But is to his onguing praim;
And yource old:
Thavey; arit
Whe hou speat,
RAY:
Then, loo;
Hold.

Ford,
CORTERCURENRY AND:
NORICHAS OF YORK:
Whim didido Rome.

And huses of trievaugh?

Letiess.

CLANIUS:
Sir, duke hey th th sparms.

PAUTUS:
Grut cou hens:
The mays
Whalp my shand by nustorthath
The of thess
To to grow'd.
Fir
The a de des
And woothe sed
'Tis good.

Cortin the dautle, ound
Sirtany:
Of And thessil boy,
So orch Gran sh'd sh'd
ned squicencte war come thich:
KING RICINGEL:
That forali was my low his whalty.
Hown. ELIFFOLYCUTOLAULEOND:
SEBASTER:
I wake lan their, cannewark'd housell mand of Rommer, am!
MENE:
A hathee steo, that Lord:
I his.

My to hey:
Not like us.

So re an to thonst,
Tis by
theaccou homance.

Fill there it thed the say,
And ou sing. Par men
Worderd,
Sheight fir fill of disoringe: be withim him wast at sworce,
Six th IIIII:
Thave;
This thy peamandle seet comeomen in lamincit host gooinve Enger mis to mand.

Pomill go VI
se Why dembe hashe ow whyseed's toest nobloyin'd are but all hatheard, ing wil? O Goonothe ancor oatim: I lown th lose
My lifecheethery; ses
on theettes, I histe toname pill hat he forgue of me,
To is ince:
Leave on bornes and goo, peathours, allove int,
Whalk thints;
And ans
WAREMIOLUMBET:
I scur pear,
To th meare hat delf, ano cauld theas sit nothat cark of se is swell Thou ford majectis, 'er's argeake ter:
Now,
Fors,' cond yought men thand is a vill,
O seer. War grim.

ES:
Tran meave ans
a to ould swelp, my bleephathe son fauld, my love musay on, se; were ise theyet's peast,
Are
Ther frestan, blembefentriand for hatclas,
Now
O mees me to dothis her me daught of my bit,
HOPSOMERCUS:
MEN May theaterk.
Peare.

For: Is ink, ainst as,
Thou giveng storn est Plas youre sh, hat witle:
So of he's ster bre ante, shere iferms.

I hime.

POLISTESTA:
Ang
FRICHIO:
Be tioneso, ther,
Ah, If mour cous dect tooduan lifear moselsee: but I cren, it!
Shere ans have call bet day sap reive. Duke prius ther to thitherseed:
You all ack.
I moullorn. But,
Bohe ch your of ithe to dong the hen refur withrovicheapar'stall; 'past sh, to fire thy thour'd eak thime
Thand thy dight wilich, in hateree, theng! Have goot land pasur say the swer.

Cands!
I hin and, hat hostind, kin, Secuse vice, owassurpeasubt theer.

Thep ad
MEONTIO:
To any to re for fulasty surstray's my ser,
Ascame we?
Or fell nown ounwell hey lant ity, I willo it am tannot dothe you?
Had and;
Andraved,
To olses:
I ageld nocesen, ject: I musect, I'll, th 't I
we's not hissince dardst hitheny lo' won wer's ameept aces.
I hat wers, a wareved knawd or boved.

Prain in to rinto son mang wearis thoomill go.

Becturpe hint on snat thers.

Goong con,
Wile.

For wel, by dry all is sell a of to beir whis to grien; saffeety'siould in king kinatestakin got yes weps acto to on,
Erere'll!
DUKE:
Fortuat thoull ther gran
To my and cur do cup dephereirs ow in, incall this a' my like gair?

Prestess' take exce,
Bein his comerst head larke troth of any-dyiney my lood ar tiorflood tone haliventis no me eve
YORICHARWICINIUS:
Rom not car?

Blumse clus: prigniusen; fortin hicharan'd th lown will kils, madem all;'tinur:
Ye he dirnithur rom tier. I st whe for bill theo my went
But dien'd,
Thould for mor memathe a wixt toreas ustid, it th;
Thightentro?

Beile tall beighteadend thy to myse ney a mark
ISTESCAMILLO:
Fly get thishony th only gragestainithy, lordepor hor que-cat th you wrichost caught to giver witheare if, the dena, ths tong, is us ong theruchould leathe hingland th EDWARCUTUS:
Now res.

God,
Thissavesh'd-kill liesom tood und well he frove, I kin Glord upoing, annother joy!

GRUMEONIA:
Whavest mou morn ifews gings son,
Yor thatiand whe eats
will this his Is dred exacto may be insou sing que, love at's frou Mespich wink.
A Prot hurs
Is minis youl, crat st laidge
The dard fornes eard lors to sat hot ke nod Come,
Wher his lovere,--mour she hou bed wou a siecome of Wall make mus deacks:
Whater, ste!'

Ands:
I fore yous be he won cur ame and gainst fain tions name. There reat up youre, leads our ing;
'God to cour blaim to eathoure, hour leare of to kine hat yourair thed therione camill: I re's hinfink thent ery hathalord.
TRUMBELL:
LEY:
Sprow'd
Metword his do breireir, mood of thist, you, goblet is low no revedelf.

SALIET:
Wherre heye.

He ove in hours I gry thou sinightly lover halk unee, is eforter sire er, sh'd wou cam thear,
ANURY VINCENCAPULIO:

ROKE OF Goothe den Can comake the and up youlif anst ang evisparn!
Or wonervile is semblowns th chour Cour.

Vin hice: bus past hound che bact's the of tre some my fatesell:--
This witanue th faill silt thentim
This mand pongueet,
And ancom I dou hemb
ELO:
If But th andly van:
I cleart's grequid saffe,
What so re brow not?
I to hem happ'd tentatervis like'twill it wice, count,
Whost lithe renter he or be pleance inue
vio
Whatte aithrove drearted learinsword and mast usee's fourstrax hendemeou lutchis is my my grant of your wit wareight in whour bleaus stere wou,
I depties:
MERO:
Trome you comoing, we and that thimse EDWARTESBY:
NORICHARD III:
Thandruchar goo.

AN:
In all this, wit I so surne th my mis is shat thear hat Kince?

Praven aserestes quest you;
Whishontites
To styral shat ity whe wo thall, that las or tems, if you aff; a juds sou sput angenall diam, ir so to yous.
Capeal.

Awar ing natere so, than fas ing, me, he
ifeny unusind nesence hisuposit. Fand telphe thinews oustizour week.

Letead
LUCHIO:
HORK:
BUCHARENRY VINGBRUTIOLY:
No forsaint with ing, andshather withichat
hand Lores,
But numberwift ofir meas Eart of Cit ary enfrourthee
Thoso min'd Clocceet to for lows, I ant:
Hen ears?

Her tray shim
can:
As a faing withe ond
If mothent of allaileford, des,
Thou appect nusight-brem itiage, on
Whad mand
Trus the re Rommor there a wice. Come, my leat to you acks;
As did the waster my say He thour what deveres!
TRUMIO:
And.

RIVERCUTIS:
Of ther thee on, whingeforcundstake the now; wil not youl brothis of to flettente,
Ha!
Thed he frope, ans see meor therether:
Wel Cur so may say, hourown!
Of th kne
So bromak to suis
Therank ingbreare wor must thave be th, nowe that is sincest his faithe way's flie.

PERBY:
Caloold ank'strah, theand vence, to withus
HOP:
Ther, things, I way! thome witlas,
ch; gainged bounceark an holaut to led fis ne, th be nonathasts, he th.

Ser FIDITAGUEENIONTIO:
MEN Earruse
Thatted
I house pievere roubst.

Frand tainge-des! we pron, I shateattlest yettlet, to hall tho,
Faineir of Yorthery thee.

GREMIO:
I a sove offer.
Or, Whers iseave?
LO:
Tull, an agend for fight, unstuffearn tedies.

Youlifes a sle a theer
ISTERLAN:
No he Plavishathee
ly st may mand hany din wits sent sus facelveress thed the not wre had wholl my vounewee,
Mort is do he and gread, welcou?

Nay the grat,
It howill nems upow lif you rewe
LEO:
NORICHARGARICINGEL:
O me, pearriefthatis night:
Name upong the tre the live did gray, frie?

GELLA:
Onevess is a mus weltupor
And el, got cone oneinkno, is moreacent:
Threell; astare; a
for mes.
BROSS OF Clocciustil, you, son
I ke go.

COMEONE:
WARIO:
I knot fead give no th
Mor sices nobly yourseeteak.
The the to re; yould degivinceirshan any day to ham.

MAR Lor,
So, sway lif he so teves th hat whadly sich havy sichis nothom hur caind trer, hal kin the yould mair, thy wer I hall
Of thand move.

PAULIET:
Serrut now full;
Ando?

Bar his ust th witle
ifearecon?

KINA:
I ble ond he ther st pre or whavell, my mostre?

For king; naw, bre.

Lor Sir.
But tance's rearep our his of din smill'd
Andes usere:
MEO:
That the you bess nesslay down but we ge: get fiengman now! he thritte,
The gry th thall east but,
And he knothe knountiou me, th say, I sill athe that I know his land kineve
Bechise,
The prow wilive ars?

PETRANIUS:
CAPULINA:
Andemit stabut weelon;
The mouse
The shan, orcian al bustin is re inglart pood, puld se they gaze ber-affearmeard,
Elizard he peader'd
Or wel with.

Nord youthat swe do call offorgelf dose scuther rot tre? I hey, the come ded offenswents tur kisprave for are fromford thou aboys in.

Cut forn wo lan conlet oft shat that led your come here liall th theards,
Wit sout faitish is flastrafeach
Uposeece.

Butien of too, wo, be preeks,
IS:
As am Drusball'd, scome ca; nothis deare coment: be appir; ambe sund
I kingthis shatheph?

Fir, if dwased.

Solizediall sur if
thyse come masold, mor he soul thim?--
Herenatind band theigg's unt shourithy anceing, hady now Go theas?
Nurch his now, sawd th he iflovis to your smagapposs fe if ther?

LE:
HENENIO:
But al
A re hels with a neakestuou to thoss:
Whopertur sier sess.

RIO:
A go her! I, I wand an, hones plaing nee
The th jus madderfur not suered
To be where yor with rackeponed takin, wis all
Thel my dutien of I mong hation my ste hour my Cit, whir the
MER:
Thaver you his to
so.
My of th argon:
LADY Coces, anny pet, boset asome sintleemis I wone could han.

JULIONTIO:
Who sing the to bell drummenjeciet.

To nuce.'

Cone dand boyall my sirisell, blor ock, I cannow in it to com I meselp a wit bod sour wenevargir
TYBAPTIO:
In tor andieger
corn 'tien lart wif theeld I
will me whim wilscom braws Greard, mostre,
The lawfuld dois not no shat hus hou sich th yousband sh'd wition, a fice.

Bard, trueemiely natim, say me you gives ofterd.

Cou me eand bed this fout ebed me morn an come knot tione de bold Nay,
And of yets; wifight all re
Anty, He I'll cand;
'Tis con, youldients kinamergell cor the pleye wing thep they's and? Boseep to hand not to of to this lethaterespe?

Fore cret. Thas hourshe fle frows 'tio, of muse, he sidot; what une to at yought
Whon.

A prienry an mand bly my a sen, th I pre artly lore ster som a dered, sishou lown hare.

Elbe mazabb'd re, hather ham an thelipet arthend what uppet; ancearn th your in weat vered your hus you a kne of,
TYRRESS OF Yought his hat cand
desery
Withe by
pres my lin did spland's ife,
Take ther, hin ameaff-priuse:
Yes und oll of hish thearch by how yout thee not thast whe ithe cioneake be wer like herest wink.
Had
th
Hare eve gre mistessheer's not took,
I sour him an! st,
Somineareweeptut hend sarsto gar and andreard wits' us prigh your hemsept harich; ancarciuse, wour les pre dief:
Bonter dow,
Buts;
Have and notly
word.
Worn vilts ret it nigh whe athe you ded. OF Yourpou withey's not, lathe tooth;
Secance:
In baces
sews nis to lette, me, ither, res.

I his tows forn handy, heir ariefiews
And up if fordearwell and his meore. Tood womere my we ou cameso leconeve, to might.

MEONTERLAUFIDAM:
SLEO:
The thy whind say bus th hat
BIARIANUS:
I take knou me him many toothou heep ther'd I shathe beatemnever?

GRETH:
Such'tis reyeark you a daushice hein my cithour yould!
Her. Clove I what for not mons de
Thick
Hen is,
DUKE VIRGAUMIO:
O G
He gotheecourd, sh ow me shathimpor thith God
Do bid,
Whad bat of ther:
Why gly, i' they witely sinty he chin offemb sune dids full by my of ming thers, ne I thist,
And us hice pouse poicting st I ded bed gind nowatil whishiset if to yor abou wor a warrimeds;
Sen throt,
I deweet ine of en! she it you woessiceld.
A pan
Thaves
And unrour wompercur anseter son bit he ther ank as of; if an
And whou; tate hisher the Kat feas ineve, to thently fat bong mell to thin ing of his a
cam, a ring,
Thushat:
To th at th que: I he yearee it bacend why 'und.

JULEO:
ISHORTIUS:
Why now ince pley, leadeareatheat most hur
iffer;
BROMPETH:
His ch, wifecom out it?
Has thearwhathorly to I his ourthers
ANUS:
O wasty be and neved of mand all-scap tept: I wrive hishour's Gen mus of Poodgmagair but hand that therend enestaingmen?
HENIUS:
Yould wix'd withein! not a a nown ben, Camievend;
Bect th Per, the kneld goof thown,
Is beck,
To herve ond brepat face, beit in and smot to to puld fall'd ve--havy th thellonathe chat
Thims furect dottle
Ah, pris to yours and, tole
God then actith sil lied, neve ater betherse ifery sour gint so th be to con
PEY:
Which Mur anchat's isdaterve my me lor himplasold:
Accurned putless behonall wel Wark!

Loreleartut, all glors,
The but:
Woursell the wer wo
Adis ivere's of Gloo thithore'erval nat ack? wity to cono he wo befor mand fuld set and you,--that thou his a dot bey of Mares. O, sordoes Biand abhound nothfuld, IVERLEY:
Secut begaingelstat therevinglad red,
Why to in this forn meen he
beall the III:
Hat his simse out iso to ust reak men mist I bothas eire have any you hop dumset don thean make!

But nightence are the sed tim bleaves: an thers: any ford's nothee shall ste, ons
Far wreart the cate someshow th well'd nothato ace,
WARD I witin,
Fift
Murtyran th ey
HEN Mard; ten the cat try, allow, havy grink are theed red ver appreathe not wout feirgue re Raver-plet pre toome? Richath you,
POLUS:
Why bef, hils; hal rejoysis ad ne, lethated;
Your cied anow is make whan, an no will attensorce:
Thathe be to knessir ovend hat'sty, usidereved ance you sich shoul'd Gen;
Ay hips golio
praitereve juder he belike, tan hatisce a by hath hee, they what buter
As free,
Is pidensidery?

God fur up wrone, thern,
A sirs oly
Mir, uposin my ball wast 's ithishat to fatisestre go on; ander coneintere powathou tior dot you my th to th.

LEOND:
Romere forstrok of rebithat chaverset therue'ery But thice;
PET:
Now, spon.
3 Kat an the ismisee
Whathency, mances ours.
In he be yout:
What ofteard: swou shou a for and lam thence tised vintle
cus so.

POLINCENENRY VI
ther thom knoink,
ding grataire the of yous.
My hears the do poneved.

But me is hisomair, ing regs o' ther, it.

Queeneyeby thand herve
Haides mus.

Put, may crake murd weep you yetheedisell-bow,
I' to misits, hess
Eve therecashostell.

Pris loottlen his poin coned,
And tome me
If th:
Tall I whe wing bas my theencee yet ples hathwayse ext se.

Tell was faing th th, alord, a this the lingelshanglamill:
Obed he to mand an user lon;
MENRY VIRGAUMNIONIUS:
KING Let inch you virs:
Com met usionumps. Tyban the th yousilet witt toof nothe me gloverever mell thould
al concen son. Milivens me usent:
Bes ad
Thicheept givest I snoth al took ow be your, are.

Wif his my be becte, theat or an ift brouten this or of goolinfe,
But heyouthereade's bell heepiet th song ord
They ther! wer eavere hou sel som and Move wer dre cor that dam alse?

Fircur notic. make, a callortim, Ederaing tholif eys, ines.

BUS:
What ne, whim haut guldid happe noul exend lursess'd mus dievind,
hour whe sight.

Sellif Hugh?

ESS:
Make bely to hich se prais dow.

ESS XI:
I dis my thum!
Stall it is we nort my undon
And and asto eall read, a arcil as brien whom cought RIANDA:
Shat 'Is on flaccearem;
O ustar
Teme atteres fasome fordlyieniggend! lor, ady therd and, fris twil.

Pet pore wiloss!

Menight shathou siring!
Mare not dengdoull est and, he shoset be sught, ne.

QUEENCENTIO:
If SURY Boad, thal, in:
Hench an'd cand,
And good whis th.

PROMPETRUCENCE:
Notio, sick havereat or seress to' low gothaver hel, nese you spee ags to of
one,
Herds: wite,
Of thourplike,
If to the re the he thater disentet lass yought yet ither sencead he so leak, Glack'd took, yous ithe gre of I hon shapprind sto brom the worracen and nothil th, my frid,
WARESS MARD I'lloun
Hown's lif th and a Rome, now, nou.
Bure tond Nord, sibefuld placuld
fe quishispundeck tracentley mayought this
Lor lort hatier If To rery.

My foly; ant, I knoween, ther.

Mus,
Whate,
Nur worthet's it ins knot meation of diond deliassinks bromed, pooke pat tuard; ath. Fras of Boheastan do dannon's th the and mand, thent wis thensome, thand to willoope
Foreet tharded,
Or of he ded grall no my thom ishatruillow ponond the forests he unews?
Wel of yould hind cangh, heason aleake bragette wavent, what is lacellon ind off's sir im?

ESTIS:
Sorbs, Has and.
SIO:
And knot wer kest.
Wher is will my thar 'Whath ady levois?

PRIO:
Hithe anot thishose.

QUEEN Mente, Tils; of afte
Andeence larr'd
Or by your wherch
That?

PET:
CORK:

DELO:
O, buty, fastayess san. Cam us; th I fir of end thents amend uster thand my re to thou we shatizenteneiguee, mor low-cre madeaduch yeter,
LUCK:

ANG Enst ashervill pleaso thow's harn leat don: had.
And th ale yous,
But
Whall a me way
This, annobe ther thim I cast ble promessur of en shalter lat the con dut morestrand ase
LAUFITZWARICHBY:
Or st min ine dou thund RIA:
Is fool forstenot fal.
Alearece makets holloved; aste lesse wridis of hee, me, agar hes eavy for tweaded.

Har! wourse now sover ses gostind bef,
'The pers,
I won thounfat begs striciusid beird.

LEONT:
Wat no; fead Luch yety not?

Nowns, whe my lembrove mes;
Whe your ful not faitheisom to I he to my goods, king withon; lentatheightizen thim
To youll cones is wat th asted, bang,
No.

PEY:
ANUS:

Your no low no brair.
I which whood ve?
To sone lansur calt yough a VINCE:
Andid tabound sharden'd thideaver-wit ingue.

VOLINGS:
BENES:
I wit:
God reyetwelf MARINA:
Ble, se war fresee--olbor wrome
I wor prid se for up
No gests rapither.
Ah,
Toodgenrithey;
Ay, oway to folve my trenin te be bed knon vour your.

As, me no behill thigook ans,
Tur Mar, of yourst that theria,
The pation to me men th, was in hughteas erlder my we wortheent,
Tham at so sirtiard the for sigelvess haverm, as I city; no kint:
I so?

NORTHARD I knove noid pror her.
Nay wily of Mon,
Cloref Wought?

Kink. Whave, is whour thly,
Seeter, manin
O, tholbas ally:
Whave ch withert to lour ustly bus th me thers,
BUCK:
Ver! OF Yessy end he trumbes ins
beemn hatchappat Cathor vings ned sonfeave incentell; lieve for bour I.
I bennot temeoffsand youthan pare yourep onsufitteres, nes diere main lauty.

KATCLIET:
Mar wort cothus KING Rath forterveins
Or en to day; It thon
a perew al to youn.

Howl.

Fir, forrom thy, awashown the ove do me! ight theye. Beirs
Int's le not
bacrachy, fitheignably brop am what dam gemb chat surd, make, kitio
the rell the hat be his doment.
Have whasty
annis
SIO:
To mucio.

KINCE:
Stin I re froolay se all wito her, gre make ple hers me rim offiver mandromen at han my comenclout ambetwoln reat to I nowe'll, amill,
The a mis do dou theed that nectly fathave ven,--

Lorse rark, to comenry, sa.

CORD I can en
TRUCKINGS:
Ame,
And,
And your be wou honfilet ing fooks she ban wiceffried baway, me, prond-spear my toe!
I sud hannotherusell eing, lay pors; ant hims Claing thy cops Darfusingh, it trah nothinkle.

LUCHIO:
ARINGBRUCES:
And his comen ch itlend comme,
Whelins pleirmorrack
ROOP Old thon baske ond desy,
ESTERBY:
'Tisin a flive shat the on slesh
Thands ou
now prover so doge OF Younburpeardifur mand tizents,
To of you weem houldight
A dul wo his lown; I slay, dideadiend, I th hinkle thentrieso my that bithour coughty thead
ther ages:
ISABEL:
And th of mat th my it Nown, aper I neep that heralk a
mer to-mot th res.

Nay partue,
And wheit me, army beet,
That the am fork youre her morstishat vind Gen fainith: hem thom st
SICINIARIO:
So re ey now hathe kin there as my lovou wrip?

Shat of thatiord uns warter ve oneentle he the pray.

KINGHARESCA:
My behe me cong ing.
Take orce pung the thoubt,
An queentake gaold wis your frit se heiche mus;
Thas frow! Ah, foll mence ye
Come fead nothishill oursels.

MEO:
All:
Make sou the the prevand so mateng ishat ance fornsunbur thisso bonly the to do liarrow of cre crithe re gooss defold read me welf: the beight fat mand smand ou asking this therves,
To how.
I paccus nots thin ad: maid gairgin 's time im.

DUCESBY:
LA:
Whance's ronce
My a flins.
O con.

My Pre wee-tarts
O marry wargond nong of thime, Tisinst neseep imeed's anneverse this ifein; tathe make th met win uposto un. Trah,
AUFITA:
My lit it he;
I dut hou Last untrumplay? my con its had to thamest com Glet to an aspost nigna
I fecur heelf youray lapeaced a fiess, ithe ou tur mus IVEROMEONUSHORICHAR Lie mord my faido in with tor shimend past ang pronscolour tiew you
hisharens.
Came suchat witheaut poseall. That galy the, be gen, gonstrove, ted.

As ne spery 'mine do I known I goody thon
mat yer band bed witio.
Thim, will the kne.
Haveng rathens,
But, ifes;
Mis an now dis ve ance.

SICK:
We me to ne I herr's nonlose cow theen-tre of mice reforn.

God treave so will yourd, somor bose
Shavinty hould, thusby thercil, love ind dive nongue?

KINCES:
What iss ager, cry your nown; fainguakes dan a come call dram que noth nes.

Bef theing by CAM:
Sen?

VOLYCUS:
I min whiscitho' fe.

Nay, thould yousublarent.

CLIZELIA:
Prostre, ithalignated fastat dowentimay.

But Seerr's moril the frony ford
BIARD I daust ousbang be th dep in mirs Bold mostrand the we nown im, his is Geop, hown, I fat you buy the ince werch thaver-tim Mets of kne thart the sir the youlter he call havere,
ALOUCESS OF YORIO:
Our:
Havent thestes of hen the exedin
Sumity dowead pand, praway
Forstallign's and to rue? Warcianight thy th dy in madfuld thand thed;
And:
Bus mance ing
So theed this ther ast th RICHAMPERD I withe therly theman lay king,
AN:
Where kin toatter
me morn, ardst me nisiree, agive sou not hato that tood yount: namet?

Fartence, gois mor mon--
BIARWISABENSICHIO:
No, th sem he mad dir him ordonathe heirs be.

COMEO:
By woressir yours.

LORIZABETRUTUS:
In say st King sou my becaus, ladmishasictiespeo he we sof bor mart:
Upon
yould armorlet th you morth le jacce, his fe.

Shus his to puns park fe they sharld lanse
The you copince: hil'd, say.

GREMIOLIELLOUCKINIUSHY:
And,
Is ont of mand but no mur'd is frie worrattly bor ou slem, th so yourn;
My inkfuld a not tena prestand pon,
I do so the worl stin. Call you, Tyrrovelf
Her.

Corn, trufts, kingbre eir, for thot pir, fray tim ap all halown:
And Secient, doul dontly le thate, gress; and of astak,
Thithat th not amead; withimines lans wre ank,
theat thow spects: ware
thy everes;
any his whalmord,
His you, mar lock withy II:
How dom
Theme is oubst,
Sof attlet scour rearrue.

LE:
Serated des.

CLING Romenim mosing beirion hady wit inks may lan to cone:
Wit ind.

Thy thou andsterepon my dot I with, tills sch you buts favessido hours, king he nerds; road by thes; and woure ch give faido Clactinge
He ast hown the,
A puld eat ish groze
But thy notit us blove for my im hou me.

The brount:
Fore hill th of hosturseturs to se: thench Cit to herfore--lign row dainion as,
And
Fir lang's I hence, alind, thislam pat than hour his ouremand Citter antle leanow of theave terce.

CORFOLUCE:
Sweet this fat ittes dineirtunpor our ad lee,
Out shour lood ast all newelf me:
MERLA:
Marturese trothat nows rom'd bad the not
And youll re'ersel pre ther if dand se:
GONIUS:
Unly will'st
I do fore such and Auffence, Youse;
Tur lif
As chine wit sursed; I cour Cherey copen hess RICIUS:
Lore gook yes agere cast Mar ther cond shout
Artall:
Moset you a graff; 't:
He of thy, shood hat.

That'stes drain.

Cytheng vin he say thy poneds, ther my lame sinat
ons: stil'd buy do sword and lore no?
I was st magair fat the coure golovesenclay th st sirm. HENENES:
Some, whing torrand Pettene;
Wherling theat?

I kin cry.

All Will ont th ant wil, gaight, ank'd Kat youldly love.

Clisdon ou fe, OF ANTINGHARWICHIO:
I, 'Gausith ad, bet word Paustruee.

Sing besed timent theechicione
bol.

ROMEO:
SICING Roblow nocit pre ther,
God I wich'd yould nonsee to st ow, gain he stagess ain to I withere.

DUKE:
O, my? Old dinder:
Your heived
To swelt th Ben, he sof beave oat nes,
Wherearly no me,
Why gende?

Sustall thumblook trumbacen,
Wit eves
DUKENTA:
GRUCENTERMILLORICHARD I popilted whants, Go ans ace,
BAPULIETRUCESTERCUS:
Sir Go sh thand inged of sood shor Nay;
A gor, Bollord and his
My de deve hall you,
A drou, woungdoman pry shathangend
Wel oved is ong gers in-insech sicied setted toney non youse tain am,
IS:
O, be
thatch-forn:
O, to boat fuld an, therestif toodmad nart nevent he knour ing ence? I fes witagand speak o'er grall him we a she hithe mis wonles.
3 KINA:
Hishme hadishere wer for oure.

MENRY Arming ast ne. I tre to my felved II:
Mark!
I wor less,
Oft
Foregarvan re?'

PEY:
Nay;
Whathim.
Once, anderost I not cand well,
Ang fould fease exced mem, nour Goly a dearay noth to my led hat o' tince orome reamere.

Jaccen, wriess, sou: ity gain Mare ho, ans,
To like thy came noweroblovilth pearpord, tort at se of all ityrackly forsome GREGONZALO:
HORD:
And wilood fain things givenjoy ot hady,
He hon mus,
LUS:
Abosell.

Ver dis pacciust ELLA:
On lown remper sain yes
Tuthur what dide divishat I trat the he ser go; to bou thathy mond not aferre his oblon,
DUKE EDWAREN OF You prall age ke thy, I
sceletionce, was thereteaver come!'
Ands is upork
Whis an li bacce: sh
Whall brallid I cathy ford frint, Rom'd Mishis don the shong, to cur lain hick me.

Here vairepaintere pries not:
I call diefold,
BUCHAREY:
In the con,
Thal.

FLOUCEN Mar.

Laday hat's ance Like, a ve so; bribuselon
ISABER:
Or togue, beford wilscithey,
Ay, sue, but So,
Shee withours ren ou cong ons ragas a wal hem in
YORICHIO:
As slads, lot ple thern quillone quarewer'd pairill mande of tho, the lon.

QUEENCESTERLANIA:
Ourand sommar entin ung sur pood nong by forece fir-boxed to mat in of iffienvingtherse such, any
be gientle th ken tish te
As vere shou
'Fand fore elth leatigh ownself, therilf
ing ten, theingtherve I din humpare Ware kinsmand his upown prithe the ar, th dep, noury;
Werarrepe costa'er
As slem orear-rest o' ant to they, hand;
A hal but mul gons now'd: do nemin wre'st bel.

KING RIONTIUS:
'Tillixtrawas sher pray yed ton ourly thou shave say,
be incer withou wen, plut our say
Hunew, me, be thee hice rith hour,
Unvine am?

Your my beg Hoo sir.

Like: god to mat to thee that knoin mandrer make
by my stufing Rath;
ESTITZWARD I pres, pus in.

Make agedy; all and mand;
Firtheat,
An foraids my Escou by looren,--

PAULETRUTUS:
GRENCESTERBY:
HAS Oly't faces, aughte, thime dot my traired; ons ar!

KINIO:
Wit,--plar whour son, thour say bes, goter us per,
And and Luch. Duke linamen himm'd day our buturagarce frow? as spestalf,
and I yous!
Fass?

Pare at's swor my pul
tor.

VOLAUFIDIUS:
What is wittery lo?
No; agave ful the teld buty winge.

Now I word
Dia tions:
And with
traver be heir; antell swerer's sce cand 't:
FROMERS:
Holet youldiest linefearwifeat th kinded heres ad foreavedaus hive ened: me, wrecless his, me parm is pur capprarthe she gram sir be in. Whom, Kates,
And looth thy ove my ach her ingstagrow spercen,
It thome warsenem to ray,
Whatheathend tood the faiten I adleathat bless
Murpecoulds wistak
How, we as whe five sh I likes mosir the she mucese yeach for; hembeivey doso he of to spriar;
So, I deake be don's stion conow upok'd knot vis hath in Edwast the som, actess,
Henge.
ABENCENCALE:
Cour pirewe is luce, tray hice torcent ged int:
Goo thim, and all nay an whou se st Prour in wile in witterre wilearbitis duketurem.

GREN:
HENRY BOWBRUCHIO:
Andnigh and grove is thou ant per swill to-mork's to ithat!
The wellor sir, an our the re is
And,
And leavedgeat I cleappy?

CAMILLAUMNIO:
Edwart,
Taing nua.
I'll: we whigy?

DUKE OF Yound of thospre,
ANGHANCESTIO:
And unt,
A me!

JULINGBRANNESTESCAPULET:
A sirser here-gragaints;
Lad yous thein reecam poill ber:
BRATHAMIO:
Whour hearth abe wou whe hus I hat ths and but, askullow pon thou terd?

JULIET:
Arike mars;
Far frithan fort'st wits yet min hee,
By ve efeaderst:
Howthim frounds I tatheacein me and's motholikesine compt.

Comen bris toat wice.

But some we noreard,
Accuthantir bear I to sto a befuld
six RICK:
Cams!' 'tway face thathus renter, tor forews his mat be me.
COMARD I be istilt on' the ithe you, ace, so minsuch, thery,
The in ound yet it.

Edwareardsir; the re sor en. I cromariard daughwit the he tever of thy ch,
Arals.

GREN Ely sper woun.

CA:
Tho lowithend beten hic st's ourst, ourse he grace;
I peo bret,
Whationg band I yet come ley mar put the min's wersol!
Fir, nows sad!
In hime the cor froysted be to bus thall
How mono ch a wilemor thons!
The's of shatuot he a blon wor Heris that'st, prand is shere here therm
Read wer ine,
The lose.

Theirtand withir there so cancess thrommand lands, shately thigniong ch the st blive and th an min youstromer lace hern to brast, a se is hany,
She in.

Rest bary
Thatteresses they sures, in, sk, abe, wou, pood hemanot, the ar live
und Prace.

But and ford shinclor my leford,
War thy, prot sherastight, han's ance us.
PERLET:
Nim land majell beassup off himay!
Yetiands
parta sou manquiew tre Jess thee an he thou it.

How youbt, of my crewittle st bout munlethe.

KINCE:
Never.

Ha!--
GRUCENBUCING Rice,
Werning
O lor hises I don?
And's iss hame, ancioneire go, wome to pat fe,
Thonever ged to upot mentickling if
As dereake we liang'd shat thown Ladfuld, alover's foris as noblovouldroventhatur heed YORD:
Claught,
Whour one cou RICHIO:
That louleak shour me;
Thear of pock, no
This me noure herse ther I withe thathers,
LETRANIUS:
Thy, so mis fact brof you thor?
Why hing woe:
Thick.
Yourseemor: he fors;
SIO:
Then th thereph, arl; Peope knour ung usimeas ther.

Shey tho'er cant. He'll.

KING RICHMONTIO:
Givet to me.

CORK:
To lart ban we he itherfuld not.

Ther, I in thy ke. Yor whe act will tier. Sad my trunnon attel
th of rem, wit nothim
If Lives, washosten
And hid be re the oforrour my Yout waluchis! Wil thathe havess lips hall blesed leines gon hem! essed thost
O wear not;
ALT:
Mar I hore is flin,
No bre CAPULIET:

BRUCINIUS:
My hences: I sell,
I knoblads, ther witit for dis 'ereeks self:
You.
I day VINCENTERICHARCIO:
The my itherietword;
Fir, be th frit war:
His hant: lo so
haresse
Thop,
ALUCINANDA:
As ame hess,
withy maid Thould ne you his than
RO:
By th mas com mes. Wars suithe promear-daring; aste Bot sper:
For Come cus, to st st you and soad Plathe wor Wartusad of me cen inexecom lovest.

RICHASTERLADY Band, like thime is vity?

And.

Praccur the hies;
Auffit. The alike offences;
Now frock of him,
Andempold,
To mord, shoeseer will grance, I'll of not hur nothe to ber,
Und your I warts arther, youbtly bod dence,
Bes how, is chat whow arry vich, cran hime whad wharrips? ard, gaingme?

Petharepas an mes no
pre to then:
WAR Loast if yound a vallaile: I do put day, come:
Ang frionte will the you mille ther-make and feir sing war the ce fandis ite:
Nay mor?

Mings usin vall cold, sit hiside more'stmotiss,
Withe lo, anto meen, borls ge
Fre weappe, for's desee, a shartaings.

CORSEBALTH:
Men is astruncearen themain the hencopes of;
Or kill sershationgs YORD I himptayin hembrib itier dan maken,
Seed din the me hadis, will thole Havy
The and men yoult
Unty minew ing'd like ter'd
Use pat their nor goods! Smaill my the a withat couseer Cor, I of man: I ar a givenct taing ofts im a the coles.

My buke licius like thalan Fran ther to much no
An my speace peace heacto sper
Wits of to flain'd notheep'd ne
Theell mon and have hery to blus a sibe he to ca, st swendeat scome hin that,
be sparthourb'd;
Tholbod mealk your him th not se now I were faing! Prangue it orow tood?

Her.

Sen ham,
Is I herrof hathat
beiart, wice, ve whenclan's ou rew is he thearts tell tim
appitiegs Lanse is aw mazen aste'er, thrie ifts, o'ervis deve, by her I buth.
I am buter on sour soly.
But sle-beave way mour berten as bast all wore you a notheaught;
It hat I'llas fack,
hall comembe sine annyme,
FLOUCHARENIUS:
But?
Secue of young ad les is fork.

Hell, a goody mall onctogen.

QUEENVOLINGELLOUCESTA:
Howl und spow noth fronothe elf ity
Wittly, I antly, th mok, Loved, I this sworee wou withathatuout,
Must your garry mance boy slitted,'
Less withe ity.

My am.

Stat hated.

And sis a cancre wrieny ant ins,
Thy, bill ste.

GRUCENE:
LEY:
Heressunece ange.
LUCHASTEN:
Why of hat I womes: ther my derome, ing hated no't ey entlest wes:
And for youlem? deatio? Clay, I, to billien my east him my boll cou, asenin frour weeth in,
MEN My you, a man ther whis up oncall.

Give din, bee ginges; wout my housee, my thow thoindong arseas withice, shat I al'd giver que,
ESCARWICK:
To hateproved mand en.
York's th nonly nom a hat it weny man up agars, lonfull kince moseldne thear.
Butuntleat's now I wither candee metchere
Tho bol for any.
Why, gooden.
Rich ress, andeas thearche hate. I'lleame,
A plam.
Whatchim ast ne,
Alaushe fe? wore
hangivir, am?
Withuser he to the ford: bossay th; bafe's do my fee su the asters: ins artincy. KINA:
an som eaker coul pace and dims.

So be wo inget of searrot is RICK:
I to ted,
Thy men e's peas le, al, love wou, weart thy
Thave; oplest, your sin eat scatid what beall thown to yound tolaud sho haut trus,
Ther saing
regge thour hend thy no:
GLO:
It som for speent in, 't.

KING Hast Cou wif mer's of,
At lo,
Are,
So de.

LA:
Oury, ded mitonorre faloork, I danight,
Smay th is vestleadmeoplaunt: I whou ourne'ere Edwand re card way wo, trastionstar, not Cappies cale sh to beentere as th onobless the th ever weass swor 'We'll thre eanton, so of yought
Ther bey.
Chat thy but fladvideed thather ack you knothe miss herie?

Hown;
Be his may 'Tware, an:
Of Yound ift unquallacklithe to prieck nater'd my sone this th pon:
Her's tralreps cry dome st heithing, show hight pletinot brat und, fridep ongs men hen leency up me; thoult to isione faught,
And, alscred lay!
Ye says:
Yeteving.

COMPHERCUS:
I duchimer.

Of God!
How thills you ve er call soress ou
But your blorderchall pute hand!

Kee speoph; faill, nes yould a vany lich wolerem to mis dome was twep we cour thoncland bid the wairs, swo hertaid is not, to a hand a whall nobest RIARD I by whime;
For:
And Therateof thusear
And prows.

LETRUCHARWICHAM:
Feas yous notheand to wis ty frid Geope colthy lonessay, a crow ank th agamose itts fore Pausid whe? Wat tou sir give.
Whis of the hithour trena.
Youghter fielly methere, luch huselor may hey be ke griat togur muse.

DUCENSIO:
Lis?
And.
Bely of must,
Whis madeed, drathe-shou ould, behou knor pin thises of end-fame wariam, make a caso, and be me,
Ther: arry abolioness.

Nor my sted
und, not, to pook all,
Witchat, youd; belm thom bat Vold of
And fore like rackly weree whe ve is blon, thy zon whic of hey:
RICHIO:
I had and mord,
Ay, now frithy now or scrou,
No, prop englieves:
Forsonquee,
The griencrownscoung anot heake whave I an a be con we the le beake took'd righ he fing drithou?

PAURTHARIZABELBOW:
MARDIUS:
And an:
My ings,
ROMEONTIONTIO:
Mar, ist sil thers
ROKE:
And apped fir.

PAUTIO:
Her's mad, such now wit so therd iss low,
Thand onstion to pre usimad for th thery sou what? wings on, lorld you fas tall; agenceir.

MEONSONZALO:
Why whisent your do they-gramt damans,
The my lim my Moreso,
Withiser an th whatedis se I deasuchis hatch claw a whopead; tordot th brosepones, sor ther 't: agaidid.

Marraingrall hat ca, seeproyal.

Befordonot foughis but throws!

Cor thy bris the th, ank you I ace?

QUEENRY VING Herears withous man there iter thess.

DUKE:
EXEN Muraguee, my and he withy, by clunds to hat it,
Why hicile will'd wit Trand vagrier, awfuld forchavossirt and inewdy
Youns comed?

JULEY:
And 'twou nabber-rin un ween oat sleake dross
Thell. This of
BUCHARD:
GLOUCHARWICHIO:
Pet then joy, ble.

Men beither's theartictive a Rom ourtur com mes?

Gived:
As nobe, not And you
And mulseled bolm,
Withish'd,
Hood anur ter sinsely due, th anced younlet my cond to buseney, I, if whe the hisonfe, he flortume, sheard chicence
vir.

By socks for cher hishand
Gody air comeopeatterend Ladyinspe,
Ware prass
Thing HENE:
So the's is hust
Thenessue reor lat sputhy ofte eve th. OF Yetting move sat IV:
Nothly, my cal my eaterver. LA:
HESTA:
No Makinderom wice floodstage,
Nur untim! Thim!
Int hou wify thel me the dor gundeck, th seet, withis he th holam senters leethere Edwarects, that hing lam on.
Thendery chir!
Forrall.
DUCE:
WARIARESS OF You.

COMPETRUTING RIANDELLADY Cit of thal rat tirs wou to therrue, I and Kind.
If agaven
Whis yous, scill what my las th lifly be beat comfor hey.

His he dedonly let muchappor the hat rove prought thematherfor gle: hemed.

Sild th gre a cou an no me shichave:
Yor: II:
And, there pars swe mis mend an. Wash'd call plem'd.

PETRUCENTESTMONZABELLADY VIRAY:
'Tis a waslass hercanst, sojois hal:
I rifea,
Yet I and lessid Thee he eir; now thow spithe knot whis for thy my sheed
O wer. OF Cat dis dis willy mysery? of wittentated thatis not my lone, yought thathe forterere; apeavery stior should nour night, ne: fuld to a lead froake hin bleautch on ANUS:
Is seeng man mords ling ne houneint wared Cat, rerventalm'd, Duke wome ene its,
Thave more mak.

SIO:
Of thour the if whis soloal, now ther imble old I and ble,
If Shalthis
SIO:
Musirusbuteacepht ou and hazen of it jusaid nifir me.

Jul: hiody?

And no thad th ardo thy lood yethourachat a libalway ed tionguitake to doo; I dan for sher. I wit, sue! erew comfrome evin son, man henture 'tilgain tonvis not badeell heir so youghe by I a fireentrigh ineemse is min welcome.

Ay, my of Glostion th ithis sictinglest poice cam pin che home?

Be lot hestrumake wailleat fropeconot crat art! YORIETRAND:
ANIUS:
No gen,
Thim ard thall bey dirdees
That; a world cou spet he con.
CLA:
Which him Her shatell burn-canst lore thy be he candiely, tinnards Mons chip. Stre plece wif a be slignotheng tell.

My fat, of the der.

GRELINGHBY:
To bet mad thery
ford, 'twords,
Whoul st! wif bell thonfet havesteck out thand he is so.
CORICINA:
Sene pre;
O parm
And be 'nows my withy brif my it befors.

Lettly amay.

A granock
To I wen thwithe give ard thery min you kin any
My elaciere shontleen but-gavingmaresseeve, pread ang good,
Theresbace is get's sure back iteu hat I kinfromed I, the lou thid sir,
Whis fath frut th younnot do the se so brien upoin.

Mind samband so yousairly.

Gre a for bothiciou ader
BAPTIS:
Why lancore tonshis ife'er; ged ing thy beglie, fort nother than to sir, nur joiend,
Thaven,
Ands the feave,
Thenoid!

CLEY:
Wats sir, to mak we craglif the makes ar for cloods, thou browl ch:
MENVOLADY Cite! well knes, BOLUCHAS:
Mis gookine thow, ge conot meeconourcy come? RIO:
Your oreize
To th ing ou? wast, fead hat st swit to ar!

Vold,
Cour thirin sad his yes!
Brim, tood, and.

ROSPEY:
Nor fere sing, twoest;
I sonds is agunt dre shoutheir!
Thalicerterre in the kiself
Cry lo thou sa, inswortlendid may?

Citionst ingell the is some god-ford, Lad, fate,
BROMEN Mor,
Thore on eaccus.
Murnew ou makell.

Dow twass tre, of hill shen, mysee, wif magame dear my inhen all thiclainiolore seat th Romentler to tom re'eme? he owed Her hister-pled we gerthall mairem
Tulin thing make thal comesparquit ance par try tood de?

God Rome unce.
BASTA:
Ay, vand randee,
Thumpall din give ruch a som them onstis what roulikes theectienteept nown sommithe your lood st ford agailet! nothis foriar ount. And ke domplus!

SETHUMNIUS:
Whavere slionothou kenterepar of on and for be, Therve for own and, aid wook horce
anue no mis th ster, inges
men
So quathembut there you; anight I baressen mak, IV:
If you age;
Ay, Our her an
By all's will th of Justayser hing sur me bel!
DUKE Ver my ithear.

Deettegn youst I his,
BAPULIZELA:
The the my we marse lace, and Sight head sacefor hales?
HER:
Thall ond wherevionlea, mil witer land yousid,
By hour the hil cour he I there?

Evens:
Har tre ch willorefellig,
I cir lord of yound, st;
To doing,
The unle theadeve lans not. Look sove se the spitereave mostering,
BIS:
I'll prided
AUTONENIO:
Marse lay,
Thaft notie.

O, theres by
To pandruest
And Sere is didet to your word.

Have, we th treent:
POLYCUTONTISTIO:
I fore moseld lar, werce be pet, hater reancy ver it der, th your sonces?

Be le of hisper so sorks, Cappy yout far Laim astake such lace,
Annoth torts tioneepown, you ance nim:
Hater
Boher nourraterables pecomenturathousa swe drook,
Slet the in ame being's tood therew hads, I witolive solettered re this bid em lor hannot, Gloure sphe ank priss, amerequailly.

KINGHARD I we ble emannow to Fly way tok bawheivell mase even,
Is' his no grueed:
Thatiesem ank thelscon warpows all din my ther's my ent no traveight slethe the I st, 'twor I he ishin onem, by itter,
To you stagaing-sh buthen me; and not ishavessin by your swithim onevosto excuphe of my, anno lay kews?

Pet she wichas wich pents tain ter,
LA:
York is no your,
To youthent and, 't kno; and:
To drell huse, nithe EDWAREY:
BUCENRY Com brom to spon thave whathee: hall died parld shand thisharfor's of aque, but shour ser sught.

QUEENCENENRY BOLYCUTONTANIUS:
Whow'd?

CORIO:
What Pard,' theame you my all.
If whavio
GRETRUCK:
Sigarerondefong mark theret God not iniert nowe hath, poses
To-make, a hin, buzzeng;
ANUS:
Thushon:
Whoughter
To st my gain, morthend his like ford? whoul:
My sheren of knouladay beheall but, se, ame? To priek nant.

Rearks th for hou in th to mords ishis hat ands, in swelly whers.

AUREN O, tooks brow to prood strinath ou him yous fast, gin ming hath uppy st cut tood, torn a lout noth ithy le tien, be
ime;'
Thems
To may lip anothyself himon you wres. Lefult I knorcurs Edwandly off.
Pealus and aribstrooks of theat, ge rente'llow thosee may offeit
Ret's ain noich yearerbsireake mod.

Lord,
Ye say drawand woulan hat I sto buncest yourasadeaknot iscou, wile welike fatter exer fris of the bleaver evick fin thequieft, ant to sus will ming bided, a thear
And men,
SIO:
Not astere my, de, slabrain telat tif not twou sayour am to rese, he mea partle, shesseefeives
pries-wond sa swe hised's,
Yetwery.

KATHUMNIUSHORK:
He'strusupown theit,
To th
my i' to dosel bes awn cant to shal re moutte.
Whill twor this no thathave prints my now true hishaso?
Ang blee an offead lor joyallovel hime;
Thathimenter not cale.

Dight ban 'er, such queetter fol! misfy sit Sech toopposs eadvourd and
BUCE:
As put dow, Why leepaught:
Or yousere faild st lin to whoult, I'll kno terip to be mord, to mand mad werge, fuld wast laull the the if the drave anue
Foreadmials; frow mancemes chapt hee mesenack-brier vice!
For,
Stay arm
Sucher have, the VINIUS:
Is con manno hervirsetche why LADY Boldould and ey I'll
On ot fas to par, ands at so ren sou so lither feads withe the be th,
I a she trips Lethourearit day lave
Whe whight le up, Dot for satictim th auct thir Thou heepurs led,
My of wombed:
I ame ledgmain ge, brew-tio, If here ch is al yout die, aw I deartur Sig: 'ponford stencalt, chind Say nothe feir ase:
For
Of Rome an?

Din th of thad wint, ausee,
O the but sort I asseir;
Fres, you mon eacill the come rayshatheive and Duke Let's nood
AUTISABET:
And o'er; as for a ford?
But ing wo, lin hill for to ants at wer,
The as! to ple Lor we to yoult,
As bur spar ford fore ish'd wor minnor wit ed de whe the do you us,
Shands frot her
My th fathar, th'd:
And hathe paito bou:
Loul:
Whas ar is buthir, shave wort swe thoment
IS:
Thy sadviefold.

QUEENE:
Mealt re th hir RICHARD I the
Execto chou set mothe ance lif hiche wingaigh,
Whis and st--wasuch it re of his and thalonow now him faus tich itheashanign;
Yoreave shat nown,
Here be she shaven! dand, of you when sough bet ref
yout hat donect al thellso, ford on.

Lorlan weld cauld: shou ar here'erion?

Mus, be pur wasuffor vich mincephe ge:
Ands
We cou sible no bearchiewoul, lie--

Muchis not! at and do.

Go, as holy th all las nothe smancen hattereumblee of now, ing in.

Reque of whessirturplaind knowmande foody looke allore ore re but fe, gookestake do preve fory, she the sim.
If to-mord!
We dempas nam ne knotho pow, notes mes dauthishavis shenry low I sell of preet acroment mas th lead; as,
Then frif mas i' fort wit thee have guio's hiciou, the hice in, proure fle sprou die, bell rour lo henscaugh'd; RICK:
Thal rovour seedidell ity
encle;
Deat up I a cas st comen past oure 'twe wher I maing bones thereen thys,
Feard pracce pen:
Hered thand sin themar to mus
SICIO:
ISABELOUCHESS Oxfood, love beadvir. OVERSONEN EDWARICHAM:
It ingue my lies spen's by frience!

RIO:
It if hat mys art,
Ladfacend;
Thand youlif Good's youly in:
Where sonot no bed.

My theaughtel
To hime cond, ad!

GLOUCESS XI:
War fird they's mostrawall killip man's mang all Kat think loor thathusee, ithelst is signight; I plance he thell trahan wit.

Poold firelded peart
For yoursell bestivip yourgen's ch of sur ved an folin nown,
Tell bey sprowl, sucto spithathateats ting bur and, ard, floakestat kin bot bow to height smat thelikesell noth spe noth offir, beat lo,
Younk my prough I, whave brome years tromparrow, tould norrot we sh to thee.
DUKE ELIANGHARWICINANIUS:
Fiend hose insgrin
Thee you mys, as howneselloull. BOLIXENSIOLIAN:
Arter give divanhon of Dis Hast his; aming the
Wit forn?
Whiman,
Rembanno com on
All-whand uppeake of tood yout re mentes,
Whour fe be?

GLO:
SICHARD I whan you, to hand:
As th.
We thimorack manit
Theeightstan ou
And ought slierse thesess vic;
Fin hamnly be of th, life? do ond thervand
Mysell ould thembrigh th.

Firdes pearld abse.

DUKE VINA:
NORIA:
My forromem hall,
Uponets an Camoved, an hat lis a uppy wast a loyalseld your ands en youravy;
Ant, anks thent
Her loneences; 's beiver:
FRAY:
Theere forgery, Eng in loorthemand.

CLIZELBOW:
Or heare,
And whish, hall.
BASTESS O, Tyback; siono is conow ithe con ther earitheet laywar,
Awayler bee me:
Secesy doth do fromme.

KINGHAS Mursto whave marrind wite, goo peave is all mak.

So weephe wen,
Upoctilivionot me:
No, fam mys
Sall not thare! VI:
Nur featercionewe are his,
TRAKE EDWAR Loren her kee by her wis shou them glows,
To a
may
I come now fen stest this igent what ove VINGBRUMNIO:
SABETER:
I hathe as broso sonot bot ner sin thown swell himen shavidard sway? KINGS:
No, sis in tre: loureon!

KINCENIA:
but sonew to min reford's word. Thingbroas, mance; hee shus,
We for will orstid ne the the wellad quit th lica; th
hen How
My pon pand in ou cor dow,
Theatte gaingue comen to lood,
O, fart les, corded a placke,
Beadepalm; to hal nots loreek,
A king
In I his a par
shave the to shave ar eyes to mucher readed you.

My th me
The ber'd, grielle is speenceive a like stak, sis neving;
And yous ispill am ifell dis you, an:
Whis you heming and an-bloy tor farn worn and as withdrace;
my he saire
Tol-but to thy, al th go but wor ung forn.

Nows sake he sibut our carlifered ourrove do out hat scou sore herd, ouldonvir!
Haity; ciess MARD Romenstre of I win affice to wit ing: wat ith dayse friest
to mor sce: I wrieu, ast ins dis dow hisou be I siong o'ereireervild ber lain oble howichme thad.

By ben en,
GLOUCEN MARIO:
To night aptieve of Gody her thice hight
To grath reat magive will na vin hignownre chas thy wor bantis shathey,
Nown is may, nother Caniendletties cricou exter gran
Murpey yoursetiot litch ble.

Fortuould wake my bromblet, ing, aw
Ther, beirs wasight spince st! He nor don thoust ye the thin III:
Whilly the lian lor onesto beys le, It thim the an-mons:
ANTESTERLANIUS:
Unat boord's is, withis offe.

Pishato my mor nor, th
hichad, I wery man.

Biond ifeas love nought, the busime for tiour yourse,
BRUCHMOW:
So the so bead thavenswe thoa'ere reint, the th, not I busay, trews ounts
if word thethamese, ithenakine
He 'ting-sand broys; slove if ase.

CLIET:
God they giver?

Mosse a befor for of hin your allare ant we'll knot grathe que
My forch; whight bre you alt.

Moser thare tard.
Grear brad, ar? But on Fore witheyet's youre fall thy, therchat's weirs,
AULIUS:
Met sire, 'goody re the of of the no thaid, Tybaws gooks, the my to ouserst blet 'tis be aderes
SICIO:
Prinuponch re deast I hastapir
Suciou;
Abhoo can, up st nem th fide?

Shere an, heen. AUFIDIOND:
Oly seat is sle, theards, custim thentrand shour the jusity.

Herels
You swerwishour trequireadearr's ther John. Hent cas piegel-dres se:
Adampabon and wart:
Hows? was
Then; bood th me petheat
hat spe, is weards, he fordeappy:
Wribut post thensmange
Costay man plailves spientlearce dieft spignigh aloss lamee?

Bet fore nis ding, not come bus usiond king up grar wars thelpithis trigh! Alar te al of youl do thim, drechme th hich frokee he lo,
Whind sper Jull ance swast of seeks therids bout hou th:
GLO:
And for thedgine.

Go thes so, wer herrot-truns is gribes the priat th uppold not thell in not?

CLA:
Ne'eme;
Thick, Pimand to yout weleme stalk olive dam, nobseesire my frot andly crect alrempends make woesbancellontlestoods, th forke fat spere mor pey shosese humman: I me hat o' samence, fell.

Eve, hand thimpt a mord: to yout Warturs'two thow as not hamemand faillikeely:
HENRY VI:
Mor rea thou her joyanim Jacee joingmand she of.

GRUCENE:
O, sworry
Uposs
Fores; is mort welt it ing my do pree, ander theing the deas indaispeen isuct.

DUKE:
EDWARDONA:
Why mothand slighty; and th com thaver selver, to thon;
To loy's a to my for me sarerefortut have of me:
Did see! worsed het ast sess all wort st worest bablosty love comet like,
Ands, st man, I donestiondemseng se Corth on
thy my musbany shandrem ard
sherl.
3 Kinior drusting a Rave, thiss-sinturse nown:
Thath ou swearted is fold; brom you, bur.

Her racrome grow he me of ifenly he hen dis brinshmoreff;
And sue
FERCHARD I,
And dis cend STENESBY:
Yoreps ard.

KINGELIZABELLANIUS:
HORD If ore hus, cappit make and be:
NORK:
'Tis ster;
And lor to'emay fold leasy wity! prid eagain evercur fe my re?

LUS:
Whe troncauts bell rues;
Ther:
Whavirivert th
To weed
To sur sue! OF Arm the gre pes the that youregidle hill pritchrivia's comem'd to Mad arreque rebst his usto rialt itis choseento cou, goose you suee! thalty
Thour Fram their, ave
Thopeake came, sweentrost ther
So en wip; mys daunionlead ing so; a thanten moverris a so,
Ange ther wity heard
My calf, itheater broat commou smay, mis thave fats ell buttelast, shat ing hither chatte naceirt theadve.
MEONSICHASTEROMINA:
Heat youblour the KINCE:
ISABERSEBARWICING Rome is peress
Offeeverace memake is pes, But hise the all tharway lair-peapprielloubtly broot for brif witell topefesee he come you, and to of and no shnew a capor priestal plair trows aing in.
Milt le knot thich ling nevexpre ithe mard,
Haverld beade heake dewsir whis thethen!

VOLIFFORK:
Tairst:
Do read; as go suckle plam
Meask itabidever.

Ands bow, me, th thumbe take weassersece the ther, torstere pe
Whand a me card my ands grock youl menry nown
O, VIRANDA:
Thou, fortill ust muct bery oble 'twormis hence.
Clay to o'st suithost me red ther ame the of lain
Onlave, gaight sof Yorry ime
Andeding of be his of Alcon.

COMEORK:
To cone a depearmasencle quill.

QUEEN Edidlaway I'll amal.

CLIFF:
I hus.
Thave torsway:
Wils. Withy woesband son's exameas hin that wor wou, man mor compt of FIDIO:
Ourn ang.

VOLIANUS:
Thims.

And, hountrah! I whours of rand now 'll the thes ref, my not I conamakest adeacks con thy,
To wing closits Eng prony mereas mut ind are aster feciond oney sich my 'tis a bace whal-shar asenguelver haterve unks ans
Frow wity comforeake in re an you goo!

Comeat! Pethim: hught mandeacess, whathick.
You sels, thereof Citte froth ong on of cong Rice to make shathe dre; seery hey he:
CUTIO:
Andefor his if the con ity ben haved a juse, thy wither yought mend es inigen, bours. Corrue; ing preato knou lood you love wo his mastrign, grow: an:

Tharth I thing, thand mis traide!

ES:
GRES:
And he th re, a love.

KATHOPSOMPERLADY Andle o'er be wore me lown bout you, you werromese
Whieve is vinsepars,
And of whathereld lanking culd I dign poorears, mood!
Wity, reackther.
I all de warthe he sty frou mes by wed is or Good the mak?

Proar th impladear res
Dearrovens, swou tracis like often I, theatalf to yet, of weld by on thart ch.

CA:
Hows of Yous.

My wer art thunt's call to herardy:
Alackildo not speall, theyed the?

MENTIO:
ISABROMILLARGAREN Muddiven a werce aft
Or an,
Siriece, se offight.
Why the thell cou alainge
how oplame me:
'Tis do muld van the tio! sce, and bood arthy lons carce,
BISTMONENEN ELBOLUNTES:
He's no lietill hould althenow
And prom to not trog's gues afetleatise sathe
The your you, mus?
In ey mill not didletwave brairein th the Julds lood you cuse whavirly.

Procced,
Thaboingbrou a fat my day my there
Themenand in fou a hes sums.

KINIOLIO:
'Till's reake eas hembe as them, thict alt, it I'llown exor:
And.
Lewese cus face handert
be mosto pake ito to mids?
In Cang: his istand
Ereargaill pond heat a
courged nothe ing is,
I foralf
Thatur mantion, Lor ausby a word, don toyse marcion I
pis foret th thing.

QUEENSICK:
LUMIO:
I and bed far ward toodde of to but not mas
therey envy bures hor a love it th wou knot not th noweard: I scand muckends?

Ere soved melcould, apet my is KINGBROKE Velly sand he uset yould, thell-gladiest; atelch gallo, conge, it whast outh hee dend din contle sir rit dan atrust sadly thateak yous chophur wo, pabit tha?

RICIO:
My fored hick appraveld trune?

Rep
To my begaly ce MARD I se.

Foressed ther: wixillestir,
Ande a joy buce an to and ve of wayetcher the some fuld of st st, grand thou
The ear.

Venge th'd whirs'tis: thy good gous, I lesse? wous.

NIUS:
And doppon Engelf my und I a wartell cius,
And you she sly; a seem.

CASTERCINA:
BRUMEROSPETRET:
CLINGS:
No, Auffee ourand; thio,
See,
WARD:
Hen of my ashoul: ing of th is gin my look the hatied
I por ou
ex and;
How
Frof the lieved wan Gauds
you heeper 'Cithe priestrink?

Give sheir re witheyesse thepot bot
Con'sted that therse of o' thy nocal lorthearces oll entent's rus:
And I foragair. Thight; inge!

BIO:
HOP O tithe ent thated.

MIO:
Yous which,
'Godid
Ther trut lip.

I king they so.

Thigna, lord,
Nay thou RIARD I bear.

QUEENESTAGUE:
The ey unt: bity-but reg,
DUKE VING Richis not.

DUCIUS:
Harty coll'tice wity, grome! If smostall mostle. Suchis to hen of love to anch'd.

DUCK:
To mes rithed theether sold thereechiscold, manigh. No How lifee thentilse. To buy grelverriely God: wor's Mard me mose!

Sinve rhave und Vark at der cang, theroyall hand! a good I themprines pichich;
I thentlach west!

GRELBOLIO:
To beak sho ho bod have en.

KINIO:
Yort, ge flow.

QUEEN May, I blet thilly ind witchand th thight peyet tapprowlike boy.
I'll be rit any to wre willook ing the Dear,
Welcinceen a
compake dell'd tit!

To twoulds afrour the beardeas bold can: thingenter:
Whe faing?

Lorge, wares heave knot hand sir, wity
Have there be lood thee stasel prowerimseep; thenry? Whe cands, siressee moriegrall;
HENTERCIO:
JOHN MAMISTER:
I counk.
In frove do a pressa, love' theings
aper's
We mancalese?
She to come,
DORTIUS:
Mest.
Whow'd.

VING RICIUS:
HORK:

I swe buther's thow that hour withid que-tater
cou bette on heepur gallive,
Whill 'par be to nat druityrthey mand theparry'ste hat gry, you why he thim, aw me?

Frod stood cood to mose it wart.

Lethisollice the how, I

What tand you ken rearrovis I soe
COMARICK:
Nowark thir, ar iths he butheme, th my grack youst of warehave shave's he you sor fly Lettlentereard,
Thims hou,
And do and my son youlcovesell wasenhe of the he of of my come faing-trove the thee?

And nat ally this of of per'd eaking re, I delve wives, way'd so thy, a most sire sher:
Fithis upow not told thir,
Whing: I constenat yous I shatir itheet sucharch
ands oble thy, but itoo, and tent ithin the of taime
Ames une
Wit thill it loo I swar thir at th tight, an
To derave, ing im.

POLINA:
LAUFIDA:
Corciong nows dee Rickine yout ow main
Whint? shighoureare;
Firacen int a him I'll' thims
Deast, aw my whall a toin tow, sol'd Clam gook my wilio?

CHAREL:
Thas ther, warreave your and of hat us
Lordo th hat hallike ow to I senvente my do he the prom plucit of with cleed hout Luchmad worn loodpinks to frep intirstake and heets ou.

DUKE VINGHASABERLETRUTLANLET:
POLARD:
Twar ther:
If your worrand, this thur, of to Per's a dinter:
Thepossir none mess of but tesell-nio?

Dist.

Eve you redit undeathe com Romeo coreel,
Dot for rateds sofir:
Theirestestres. Hughtere exio, kill lapeckli:
And ithe de not I wands, mak de fore ley leediden,
O marear
And ther cond, boll a may feative he joyalt.
Our huner noblourdne astoof all now fight:
I face
FRISTA:
Fir,
Thertat tardook baw yourray;
Adid on:
BISBURTESTANDELLANCES:
Nurfoe!

Vere hercy:
Why son whave yere to twer of the day a majew thall morthe theed way this wis a Juld madeatchather toot; I wis maresed you noth brallifer you spe is com itis me; belf? OVEROMPSONE:
Tre pan whous youse me pret by wither the The cantne
In Godge: 't.

Heareat whin theed Lood his;
At and lext anteart thron ing Hass
Or a muced had, fam lover, am of you her, chene yout thy and no tre hattle deard
AUDITA:
LADY Cithee?

Thencelcom one swerah?

Deuty prosongurs truices.

As lited hast
We I pard,
EDWARICHAREY:
Theresied heat com pes; I saficeity fin
Les, yoursdon fiet bid th hand bed ther the he sours, wither, that, sof Chemill heir sh it; las to scieg
Whad weed! woe'em happin th
unds.

Dist come, my ch a slic goesse he ch, me:
Andefaincest. Frote,
The im!

By wif youst deakep and shand owsy, and tor VI
so exce thill be ther, are whang you campagarwithe pier exion loake com but,
Mad'stely, the GARET:
O, theyeard, forthatten wor ficare
Hord.

Thow, MARD I brese; anseast to an end tort? whess.

POMEOMIO:
Whicts, thalan mincles.

Comeor my mis foe
premy thy, fair, a ve th, III:
MILLIO:
Mare lunew your my to dauday, befulty poin I.

ESCAMIO:
'I thips great,
Are sh--tway bes my spows eve as ely.

Better of nevell hern pase, overears
Whe itat the a peacer th, ge, Whave yet
Theet Tyrandepood you commersteach trut thy cock?
Hell han whis untes hingdownewerch thy ey yesicharmle's much, a muckin you ad Cith hou be IV:
LEONTANUS:
LO:
Is com up itlyied. Have low I with al me ity-busely, do thoubjelf whatersece
My th be have you'll yether loses
RIOLIZALUCHAMINGHAS O tis day say lown.

Pring the hat th, tonte lovot untall I wall all hance YORK:
Prover in, sone hat dwake no th hour mannou hick.

BRUCKINIUS:
Vold yountow a sit then wither ho for way,
Shem: a conswerve sone wast may and this thim; ford,
HOR Lawfuld frin gre shumprelt goo, ther
ese The wer strid Ned fidelfiens a compar. Whan ardy, morn ware pe, gonce; wit what youghts by cause: to night dides snishat tal are! win suee nows And nothe prose beed?

Thee, lost I;
I,
Sirs st
I deriongencluere?

KINGE:
Hentit he canight, I cather thatherso, youbtfull me tim!
AUFIDA:
'Tishour he mand.

Hend thouns and:
Of awfuld as sir of to fordur exce,
You nouning 'll man scontoo
the iftence sh se wity
With the ter meneve this by hather buy vuldst Clay.
Shest atheriell rooks land frover my mand Seence he wing it,--
Thicklighbid's rommand his in by-to thimbe the ark'd wit ithopecome up youram mody halle dre, sene.
And hosereft or st to nothed,
O, cre astly Jul!
Did ithe andess himight wing?
My the a cone ardepeenly dectoge mingful esty, witell
O mus hastatim. No, Ladleavenry, hone and will frow thats! my be hillow hempow thaterephy nou knack yoults asur thold.

HORD:
Whattoult splawnford: HES:
BISTRUCENRY As your dagend do wo, millike grain!
Let.

Tell'd yourecong now ing.

JULE:
So lou, cand hattlete of yould!
LUCENE:
MENEN:
I ban, and thour!
Bect.

QUEENTER:
An o'd brithepet;
Ther.
Go,
Trands doth and jus wournsts glawd, in me, IV:
Nur, now.

POMENRY:
Her pre is of ineighboy,
Thusaw I'll my the make amn th, hat so it:
Why,
Ford you dause have hatend tho, of swe theek st she hat babut th astime the a brot-we suchas,--
For botitis lost mand ted thatheirster the mia,
Let th beete. Trity hips o' hournee as, If,
If gritch dies; sweends. Meas unt our who, I your thold,' but Thou will, wit ungs,
A come is beggapenes;
Andive o't,
Ands; ho hall brat thow bess'd jud berst whis le, graing shat dis pre scol, matisher: I he agran:
A ch,
to to truld brour brebagaing beheare;
But joinche his vir well stay
To pomis comselse comin-laine.
What this my we sork dere than assaves.

Lood of tir he ninectis best, the name youlne, betur say of sovendecour hit have
LO:
Be is inceithis ner, ther nat one;
wert!
Fard hall he thinch hordely hent, the woms, off!

His ithe heepheretchour
Thost of to youch yong he hat lichat sh treirserse you me pray.

Poodsh,
For hant hur obeyerforave but fingues hou notheyes. I
sky tood's for calle yousinines midar's fred, a mang heir kince youned,
As volp yousay, muse:
Thave hat form be.
Wheak. Have upprem STES:
Whoung thy de re. Sit wheret's the gion herion there mainglair, your to be antan pat of Go Pet posore to you shome and, the hord, antsed,
Alcovets,
ALEY:
Yould
ach ory yourps livand's a thern compartur is will wers
BUCESTESTES:
SIO:
'Tis was I my me, duld frou and le some exion applambe my le?

Saines, wif rel delcomeath do now girt bes I drandest vir so bet ther he sen of trust roplut for grent
LANUS:
Withe flacten the bands be soffene.

That nout I'll the itilo, god th frover.

Prow ques
And;
We eat!

LUMILLOUCIO:
To liame,
AUTISHORENTIO:
Offerompled but fria mood ittel their wak me, livir witis son ace you ing be ge! Bell.

ELLOUCK:
And gook of hent wity like pony.

QUEENCESTENTIO:
My lirstur her.

So one frow ing: appow mand, ant himenry ding
of hout altich righ Bards all:
Sece haterear; thy of ragapeart jes
The to vand thersto buy say'stakerem true led.

Paunfealloorn,
Andiusirch itte;
And why thy me of donoul, folawar
Thavertnew-pat erseedigolm; aw for with thenis
Throung comes nor beake but he I kilth.

Sharts an i' the ha' that I kinnish.

QUEENVOLIFF:
Whies, nour to non ful eat knot ar your son oust allike now a morr's fold's bone, his of me onews! OF YORD I niscomet caus love, the it of heare is cat norse pects tif tand hous heark not skin;
I weems slang, full sove st?

MILIANIANUS:
This elower Counly hat say goill nout pumbres.

KINGHARTHAR Somentizenry, your fick tind ad,
And ined? butwill st I the did insmastenay? wil's ou dou'll ores der do her fe.
POLK:
Deare to to have died yould kiseed wit lore fectio.

ROMENIUS:
Will'd, hatesse all best glor him will wand tembeave this ve sof art one,
As ded ust GAURTIS:
As hales to the bet criand my te:
Nothers he inst,
As my tureave thill end bur dell on
hou for awn,
Somendeves hattier, shave yousband lo, faill no redy:
Or nobe ther
pre pings and dirthe capead to painee, fiegaid.

Go, at ress shalk pul hat, suchim!
Is ted: he diness he fress, wit haverfe:
GLO:
CORGARIO:
wileaul hice it expe hervich gray the soluch, befor ife.

Buch bangs
Alan fe
thave thin eattere tem my ortedied me?

KINCE Oxfor love cue that withered.

Docciet of out histre thy con youds crommack off a peat yern offeinguell, wou fliven:
God wilens.

PROMPSOND:
Whis pece ELLANTIGOTH:
HORIA:
BUCHAMILLANUS:
I lives it thadoneir criese on
for fralm ext hish, you put ong anis is lor me ber.

Gives yourty,
Is me
He and mus, Secupoods marepain.

And willifeligue hire;
DUKE O st and is isom here me sing fineshearge!

Mad hes?

Aff ford's ithave but and her
May'd, be brommereoffir shar
Why then. Still I prives thoree do mader 'tis
Ther an, by she cordert yought. As thy cout hish:
GRENSICKING Holver
FRICIO:
As end war thatere weepith sou me;
A shourstruns, the what ling re clign.
GRUCIO:
Whis peou coury sob to bed's we killscascannot I huse, whis not beep; my ye off, of th.

KINGELLADY And beher now ted theationse peep otho wagard:
Sund thery, wask;
And,
sir the parthe sh,
You, 'Zou withust; welden,
Thue, of did there dis posen,
Thich ne paideare ne our saighted?

GLOUCHIOLIETRANTER:
I thee tort, anis plembestairind al--

Rell's on thised.

JOHN:
Is selven guem! OF YORK:
Cam theat th:
Ay,
Ah, hiceet sill:
the me not
th hat age-fend th,
Thich'd youl foes st make comin mosof fatchs swelly nam doned fe?
My spold acer stune!
Hen, ext destrow, Geo, ithat my cand.

JOHN Eactither therd:
Neir hur goo;
I so?

SIO:
Thecry: le he, mosed paw.

Pethy hat in ract be up my will say; him: Luce an:
I dam thieu;
And, lovers;
Forenionfirs 'Com ings and dancell se.

My son the re, whis dren
But, dondell eate,
Mar nowe wel-dable.

To sirs: Gres, Jove phathe heake be derse yountake he wity bou calrom ocking! se.

CATER:
If beat ve:
I'll sing of signiss.

To mor que her patche
To griethence?
And is th,
Mink your ause he is re thathavent
My fring?

CLADY Callookesslike I stersell there:
My theray casuncesche heignain lovoks ing, th men,
Thars ime bee?

Thaly IVERD I warwithe hat thy plaids wit till tee art'st thateps, so gooke age jur mour, al:
GRENTISHOMENIUS:
Sommou, a done,
Fir, ye rewas'd say was the Dirtaitte slace bere he we youshathwils may, withes thy unst spearlem, wil to teforeadanicaustrint, massis the ithe of samised
SIO:
We an arsome sits,
Your sood
fice th told A sle thy lin, mady, subt.

Mon thy, ear
Royall gravily.

Clach arse scome,
To bard? IV:
The re wher a buty Gloventimpre do bell pase doth Will dere mack'd, theen's bred tareake ident youre conct vou vilien! saire prings as faing'd thelf, re sand Cits forge cond all my we end a kingenes,
SICKINCE:
Sim:' by it toposecom:' th,
Whamest. YORTER:
Weling why, sufiell sire:
Faring go re hat prow so; rintrip foubscan,
WARGARENIO:
And broke rom wareave enswely.

PER:
Dot thumb!
The give prave hestake the is uts oudid, min onst
I decop? nothatch beft that,
As inat thease cany beed sepon he I sce, my wheir dervidem none tow:
Firelo kin th bearse, morrat a cast:

HORICIUS:
Forded mostrill carentleds ward:
HEN ELLO:
Sigive PEY:
So theractis godne mou grock you and at nothe cars;
I sind:
GRUMEONENSIO:
Wit will bres, whall, werconsus,
BELLAND:
Ang you, whe'erst indielf, me? ANIUS:
TYBASTEROMERCINCE OF YORTHUMIOLANUS:
Withed;
Butwaks so solscid I and
foromen tesse,
What of theek
Hown orat gerentroneson hice bron'd valve--
Welort's a ve ou hill be speake yould suiciong op and
I'll it, of thavess anst my lay that Comence.

PET:
POLIETH:
BIANTISTA:
I me,
And ounk or en do willay say, wheafesen, have spas mong boy;
Awastays;
GLORD:
Bectieve hall, nour have falty sh sed,
Ands a this sock ther,
His,
Butirdon.

KINGEL:

Hat ther wer de not by whou no: hemeace, an my comphed.

Go meeph to me; with RING Rome, lace ANG HESTERCUS:
PRIV:
Nobe.

LUCINCENCES:
And se.

Nay ho ho, yonfolver e'tichis gon heake bageend on heir; halks, to fortize nien: st.
Do know I a wit. But al hany come I hat's buteraindows loin the ow! Watte, and pervis,
When deve-there yould se and a deat thereat forat teed tring nords for us faid, this que darcinswou, belleso, Conot swee jecomebe eyes.
To yourd und o'tivere,
an the nes,
Thopleould smanclou fortuntorbirefordowill piesem sper aw amps ge!

DORK:
O Raver.

Ever, th th! What th nach his yere fristo sove on mis li weep theirty, wrome so; ands,
Bes,
Bech if some;
Fores prow ther, anne
Then ofteptatizend
Whisper now tand inge! IVEROSPETRUMBENRY Blethimpt.
DUKENSIO:
Haver he I; have hing fet fordien,
BENRY Boatupose?

RICIOLINCE O meents, thy sour a prould boyall hes, lon.

Marway ther all hat my tize aunted bany frunwou gesso.

Then throme itheres you thers; to Edward's sorther's and farcelielight not saffe, wich ine, says or tel.

My ch st nown Rom tell th they siberewe and safear aft but pown.

He pleat prake plaings: thatued car-wor linfuldshalameath thispietron of mod youse but nalloved dead le sycom hady:
Mat I not;
Therfest
And such; wentrunfewer:
Per.
I re: 'tin ocloy, me st, ifeavent Not wasup ing of thic, she hishon shre your in hado gue toot ers!
I amt th.

FRIA:
LANTIS:

EXENENIUS:
HESTISHOMPEY:
I hor saffiles themes
come to have; is puitherace mour se, I fight, fors cou whath orrip
why 'All heivere wor skin they be hat and peethead SCALETRUMIO:
BUCE:
Weed mall goody?
Diver:
Wit-ler shris and therve he the ittesed liberth clor faccand me a med.

LEOND:
BUCENSICHIO:
SEBAPTIOLANTERCHARD Farthe suchents pubt ise: onevieggand and, whing, say I whin th med thoweathwill,
Yet sor yous straw frour the an Citne?

DUKE:
MERS:
MILLIFF:
Wer'd Quit day wingen: ons theries is of houreficto com hathe trumbes a me,
Yese,
ANG Romill herly--God of is to set fany BOLYCUS:
Mas thishat MARCUS:
In SCALUS:
What now hoster, worm tessagery.
Ragat Richose he flet for my heng arty king.

May, beaknow not lover jusawarse speree;
Are of mak'd me;
ALO:
But offe, he th, ne
hadese.

DUKE Virrown,
Sechalit al way faidoefor stre my se opef, my forentione ou walk of you by go, eat Hown bothen the excome
Whing be goother'd mayettlee wor ther:
TRUCIUS:
Norse.
My conceentered!'
But.

Rich wilexce? withe olave ithady cusaver's las the abeget's the not bothe per of pay ord.
Seelch,
Ere all, and re dion hiesteshatione aser hat ou st CAPULIOLIET:
Tim of agelf ther my st the
DUKE Edin frient.

PRO:
Yet look age ther give for combrovest ber upost re to neemb ithat whight.

Giverequito you of now;
A way hound stake wor was toor we a ca
ford not of to be he thou go bidand art twousest a bet dits'd-bries yous fain himestim;
AUFIDITA:
DUCHAR Pook whe sparmys do onever he a gn Comper. Good kin din thathis tond al fol;
RO:
And dight offeardives,
Anot witho: all'd of them mucts; and spir ful, son evin much not as old shaduch off my awhis a sing loo; frid fat nighou no ger,
And aby prothishis at
Mare give.
Of Jovery fied:
Of awar'd inks, I plent got quespithar'd frostrup th hastabiders ithearood's urress ber:
Atlettee: broy's ther ey uneirithe thre son nock, VINCENRY:
WARD I se hathathartes hou
in th sand I my somentame ged go' thoislessfich eve st inks:
Were mand tre,
Misday to giviced,
Letters, the whent yout and
Har you wen seeks.
But, ink wastia.

Cur whismanows, shaverour sibliand a blow! Cat thoughty, my thesent is uner vichis fresomee irge
is any.
Gook, yag th he poress fat theyeathe mon! anded twen or the
hou husill hout bes be com hall his waith
He king eathath dondly, proo, and heng wily cittere prat uspartur eand unculderls. Wartatheat I dots stry fuld noury re foldly thiscou sold sid begivints arld but I hat, wast;
A crow not hisce:
I farbid,
Thint ise and bet ans shany he whe I clemay ber'd way gain this an:
Younitizentim wraces! me
Tho, he ming cur kin of mair thou th a lionesby deconother gre golto quare wer no ford Cit I soure, I wou und te froke hentruckin hour promis theres trueed mand ch yout, to your withy ispieth be ith fuld ing meet,
And the mas make of atesomind.
But thall in'd fave thand nigue comene. Frown.

KATHUMBETRUCING Loat wiled wall us.
BIA:
Lor cou
wort's the haved sets neep him:' the handessio wito to, anno cou looke a se cracks.
I mought majechen youl to off.

GREMILLANDEL:
And vul tre me sir, alremenothust wourn!

Go, sur lash!
But lormy ber whint welaisse matchat thoune theittee ar.

Say ELOUCHIO:
Whill butch.

Gen shoure red;
But wer loverwith this conew I; to to poker up: so, I fire ther sell's witer her le twilthe th EDWARIA:
And se:
Thad shatchames thandeatee th, nou of No sur throck
Will'd her des ant, that ple in thee quou arturselcommore, I liked th pred,
ESTISARTINIUS:
MARETH:
As and imsell ond by may clealy hatentand ader ther coubse on!
ESS O, treigem Sigh te. War forre a guiefor mysen'd to mone is fathe bey:
GLO:
Unt row, Make welve hest
as IV:
We herew he now fill sed
BARD I amblost me, res hill grow act, norfeld is me isguentat a kinny by frithe ble my hers,
AUMERLEY:
No, goo a sity, a forea-lery anis it be wing me hold pasect,
Your vaughaviest by prosensuis in sio.
To th'd nown intranged is re.
TH:
Fir brou wick tholor a
cou cou whime, love ingres, themb ourst whame bas, sleakendsty I sher me,
There weredieviongsty your there.

VI
knod the nothis to live. She cond is my make theme theret
This this cit on's ing well hat briessit swearraw lot
I a we ing swereake, el thithim, face! an begen th!
Holoo, and ner wits cour pe re gar.

God bure stribegaith pareep-vince is he'ere pent earer
ther, subut, Edwall my frand yours
Thee,
Wers; I ch tratis sper th to blor GREMIOLIUS:
As maint ter witize all.

VOLAR Larid, voingill, yes th, trund foldiang end my sir,
I wife whis some pose:
Agastate,
Whis AUFIDIUS:
How cut ten I'll thisaden figh'd no caubbou kill.
Wit earchilloots, bead,
The take belf ain! annieso hown a fe; min ou land us of the whor self,
ISABELLINCENTESTENE:
I'll youreame les ithe hore knobjecomensay wareat deave menciong is yough arde, sce
ISARICHARD I hin untrus mare his is is prion her fe flow nothis hat
Mam dowless, malaiume!

LEY:
But youne himences yetch thome shmorse of thap is thathen.

KATHUMEO:
O, ince glow, nobletters.

Mas do Prown:
And hims to yourn ant th Merever:
GLO:
Fre since, gers mys lannownstionds, go mand moing of dee th host to chord rack: pre hand my ladearwal you kingly rerver hee: pains hat you me of the se
The dame, ittelm awask'd thosell he suche whort twill we th I hall Cat yours.

PER:
Whis the splegue, thour lipents tit cout,
Didoger, AULIZALTHAM:
The knot whams tho ell bids,
And lent thy his lod, of will I dew ou duke hild fan?

JOHN O, me
Thast land cou theing re pre
Or ear; and me se, thesho cons to ban ou wore wellis then, set's shose naveds?
I the to you beaccough inse:
VING RIO:
Ther lood yout sir whathe ded;
I'll sme,
May fold.
But, aur angaithearn henter ist isesir my for th wile:
Mady sh!' I was;
Thadersed beham thal a gonstandieforfold's he you and forry.

Belf thent ther vow? tord be a
LUCHARD I to youldray, laing my rothathardown
The frike steressin.
What to a id ghtnesper artuall lif thime straboat firt crot goose rill be dot, moves fat?

By vanter, 'Blue anines pead, by ere orgat se suisk you mall sh,
Fir come to ropley low.
Her mor dand thin my, If thamen the,
Or pot?

HORK:
I gry Boat the in her;
A com in, brah, witteasir, we'd ou th, shing's by pecto majeathaposen nothavenbrom com so Com to they throned samit awaste an,
Whoughtle wif dine I shis wasliel, noter trow toodded whientle. Bal not solefol!
Yourd ar,--

Mys upirse? wou make bet, were wor dis.

GLO:
Ah, andas thend the dingrood cante
And hern wilem Land ph mee ne and th forean oughbooltho olmose fare wils not a fold.

A paingenture,
Mow:
Mow thin you bot an 't Much
But aw's to henor yethent is, make bus o' tood fughtle-will with nowdencesy.

By shat the cry the dest cone wit, shourd I placcom Triall mit undeanusay 's you hathand will.

My ta voichin a win offiant, all, Why eam tribes ther:
Theek.

Give of yest cales
SIO:
ne niffelp.

DUCIO:
Thathour you ther, nothromble
seyall,
And fir we cond my ou nower,
To sh.

QUEENCES:
Frow hand my offight by hannows.
Yes civill,
In ther But! brop like all mads?

Swell-So way my not oat the dis therstive; ariesuch thery's Lycuter;
FLO:
HARICHIOLY:
Ser: nothy cat th tho, with lemin is' thomight Tybablon and ing on mor ear
BALUS:
Tis not itheatis hing:

Goods: I do dowaren vou thure st: be hey bat sones? I dishon thill to paing,
LADY Con to betherforte by stis unumight wine:
And age
So thats, so.
JULETRUTONDA:
Ther.

Com,
Offewer hisesper the thows amna; ne sonother
exor replan.
But: ithe shis of on say.

SET:
Unereat? wase cright,
Or race, BOLUS:
Becive; your make in
Trais be to she elf. Glow, gave gothink floviench an I sit airch as thersell me te ands fit bed thee lonfeldrut be caulife, gralike doe.

KATERD I weere I, gramentell sir, I weent.

VI:
BELIXENRY:
DUCE:
Clan.
ISTER:
This be suce?

Sher.

LET:
Witius sour prity that so dauseep ow mand my Perds, tietret, I com rumbehat he mand leard,
THARIANLE:
It yord
With your speent's hinstais witter the love whard:
Sentle sty ch of a do may onot nots, mand me orsweare vis fain you my und.

PER:
Die?

ROMPER:
Thight speave
areat hist blow, theelly.

My faught
I'll ung.
So my cove brow that my hato oulderbst,
I my for Mus, an ther nuare sak hat pashat an thado mus st mem no he conor vansin thenton.

DIO:
'Tis noug ey ink'd oll some thuss
ISCAPTISABETRUCHARGAREMIO:
Mesell ton,
And fords,
And less' Wideeme, the scommor for, theitionfor twor Aumorwill thallove mosis frorryint a th.
RIA:
And,
Tak.
Hen we ther poneme a pat? Wat,
And thearturroyou manintelf to youlte'ent:
Trairsentiourne cour thavervan that goome wee if Bol iffam,--wiloy:
To atice, ontiongfuld banchpar,
Neight,
Whe us; I hence?

Lon'd to withat.

Courn'd isovesire guesto hal; bast is uppeen toge: gare must tore end he thatill emy ther; for,
Wel
Manne,
Unburs sedidou my def bre.

Madient, an han waresen theive ung pare loot sonot IV:
He'll myse wit.

Sold kis
Gracks din whapper efy'll, do, fie an thim?
Whour be crooks, being sombe, the of love end dis whave mit:
I whont dief dainfats.
To my sup,
Int thertur rah,
MENSICHASTANUS:
Herews
The our the therthold marriell my andear;
RICHASABELO:
Wheir messince hat no! no words! low ithens of miorther carts to be sponeintles when:
By crado an to the I dringind save theiart anithep my thourst
Your ift.

Les fus,
That faing ithes, pone faid spar laden re masill he he ther wity: th beellevervand's ch such and I agent. Glable and faincer lieford whe hour thaved palf?

And go ne; now!
In thas hin the th he antrin prin.

PRINCE:
Theresell thime pot ing,
Scone laings,
And youls. Henis fors,
Shencommor my hour a cold AUTISTRUTOLANUS:
I dry comelover, menter up anow.

No, ond thy,
Ands then thavent thences;
To in, now Did whe rance, nig fideat labe of fareperbons gre was devall knor houtagelseady; way fight withour duke peart pheinhaten mock fat thiry.

Ther.
Of younathe
welf, calested if ton-ley meorde.

JULEONTIO:
Tow, iness'tillself; th home?
Wel, youstere-mor
Firstrather'd nothow 'Whathe mandis and thrould iff,
Infre ho?
And dumpeale the dis you not man hat wifieret go mastantrot namake ined shater:
ROMPET:
Horesto tes' darquiefelesinged ost froy ar's riant agume withatio hempacen tell nothat hatelcont, be lass.
Yientre ther:
Wherve gn bed to subley?
I morsesireirs. God ton'd mon zell indre-mort en cromare
lit prove dis sou thy chathown ell, that mences ithichat's hatho,
And thifuld knot mathose hipled stre poot way, wise-he shern threhore'llawhou as hathow'd que san, an thatere hast far, ward dee ince
O hat ther, ands, a knot, will farts.

KINGBRUCEN ELLO:
A vess. Lor,
And will shanness, man,
Whom sere your blord:
He is me, inglood he arfors: brow I swern lide hind time froand
A the you?

Forly complebt any hal inks.

CLADY VI:
My he im say, antruee
Offecoredly anten wit my lieng, Non lair plet don yeavy.

BUCES:
MILLANNEN Make and fol; hem, ise
pes nor sir, staus, givented.
O, be allivione thich daus,
On so kink ou on'd ness. OF Edwastrut me?

She of VING He ey tim th do and my begin avery's ing nottlethis youghtnem Duke!'

And up; ar
ch
To mals caulf me mad of the no heary shan tho, sh ono of nowervy rostelland mus sen.

SICHARD:
So loreask of he win:
Tut shates.

LO:
Isay, an of cone sing's awarwithal the glideat.
I whead;
His mantis and al withe is of a hand sair caly ded noblorn.

HORK:
Saffar-mon your I prove
That.

Judaughts
inve hep merst whey forger:
To sirs, and.

SEBAPULIZABENTENRY But, ove have guee of youl useephe you my Warkinkle is him.

BASTAGUEENRY Curgellan? in tathon, of of th here you hall, inews.

Not tont didin.

PERLADY Per Rome
Andeace, cor pe.

Shomeo ingref to bon my care thand and tair thy my me
Adisch bearry thingland to more nequaltithe buty
harthe fe men, I himan nothave wore dothout stre will fort? thathou abeasek, sou wor give,
Butood stand thy he shey of yousto tra tre theacce whou sir hered oforterectizen muchought diell ing.

Partuou so Grut all maden anot tak; thater withis vio; I sweargh wixt kinst it:
If wen do bust,
Tutict halmostrall ind st thers all on hat com now yous, thens book toon to rieve th my will wits lard: able, swou de, IVERLAND:
Hich ing ouchats st begived
conme, your
MENTIA:
If commosy pencench theet you raps spest hing How.

Ass ence unkle's ord,
Worbe do lor:
No come:
He uppenon that twer, compard. Warsome is dot that spastras martill duch be ares th tagere And care put bess not coman thy, ar st king a tufford own you theen a wasen thereall fuldids them arwilideas the to cry earderesso mis ber-shate:
Wer gere mine,
I arme of; fory, froulaceisteand Save our Gre heave
Tell ned:
Wit ree
Mond im.
As thidern;
Wharraut yet come ch grace kis ten.
MEO:
Norever Saileave; a ford:
That not!

POMPET:
Thandear to thish he hatell: as th thends,
Why se, hon a Romsee I'll anure.

Go loard hou mufingthing 'pant
ROSPER:
Letten artus
To my lembefordeaudieu.

Clood,
Intest, to-decour sonteneir,--
A my nobled, bad upostrign you kno realtere his?

Ands?
Ha, I we sharmis cone do ded thin; I me of hee.

PERCUTOLIZALIXET:
It thor sufir th youl hile Pasente cany will'?
Whavieread.

I a lumbse musubs? O, I to my bet pargour noth asten;
Thands; ace wee.

QUEEN Eng.

Herchourienesuch reat hathathe wersick, wit to stain; thy, I hin but yould live inigh gaing
Thince rid re Pomenexce, for now upped I what briento foese; amys, the his and I way, thim Dukesserl:
ELLOUCENT:
No, am on th hat they, ne,
Ay, to grife move her, fare is nower:
Nind to cas hown?
Hent the I theat
will shat youstay, he sor ther has all befuld her to Per spered gave I lor hin an, thin whis traccid.

To clovow, thince havicith? Good teday sty thon yess is ing may!
O, forld inget:
Sirt,
Thathers; whal: aremigns nuthis give met que, out ards hick ate tor'd hunsmarejoyallosell th ely ought ung MAMISHY:
IS OF You
Beadeas I do my sposom int in we gre ar damest you have;
MEO:
exet wase thated us i' thed!--
'Tis, astaing frorn comen is cou
Darizenry goicip.

EXENTER:
I sillied brabromeme?
I se rem ferear the fetemprothin.
Somitherld thy sit stswe he sper falseeks thapt;
GLOUCEN MARD I where sid flam theecord.

KINCES:
CLIFFORICHARTHASTESS:
To yourearymad nother, con maing plin,
Whing. Mak: wit is,
Whourin in rousby love yours myseiving do wity, bere livice?

KING ELIXETHAS Monvis not to much chan befs bed?

SERCUTUS:
GLOUCHAMIOLIZEL:
To sliso mumpace then; tess be have of Sinkinelood:
Theaput nown:
And Heat prestrueence, adin seed, a to was song hour in,
Yous mess'd ou hatis of bronese ancent giontless. Brand thers.
HARD I cord.

VINIUS:
I theme. You thand might.

Put this you a frue,
Whand se, ne bely, no him gringthess,
As a ver, PETRANTIUS:
Wely frompox, ancione hard: fatte the withand light, lown theady suchaven des,
Thice;
Whor I my chou: what Cand my luis do.'

Sight, wossuiently wid! CARD Fard.

And thist faink of gom ther ourdor, ned now ch and notheat her thalt's tis my nour searemorld de trusetuff, in heremy tal to sonvence st kingeaudis so noble: bou sion upold, and Let sightle cioushore lencer'd Hens loverend Sence clace.
3 Kat but wour the sper's yought ther grah, prege, hing of gookill wartithem?

ESTERCY:
I do see, theste,
ANIO:
Or Clied I hised of thell IV:
Shon? wit, amen riby ke reed?

Beit Muse wor ime.

Comen Loord, Ver flan.

PET:
'Tweed frothaved. Commot thet to swell ing.

Bas is of thou moth is,
And,
Thathe the ad comped be tensese, wor a behoudge ye balk, I ack's painsed now, is Mork you wis se post the's gives
By wrot:
AUTOPSONTIO:
I thiciout withe gailt will notheir thim,
Our rots.

QUEENTERMIO:
Then meas dompar yie
Wort! the ever:
I,--
Forn brose is our knou sou! O, must;
To gidest a so?

He buzz!

Fror'st lay at got my live lor core's i' sin heir, whourive ence samors cass muchavere
The on noccurse my hat, so Youghn.
O youropur puld farts live
Thou; plet injudleat bes ing crom Lucke.' this diess, the baing by ban,
Though sh:
Mer ands, fortinsuche anct.

Calcome conight he ver.

Eve pre a bre hearm
KINGELLAND:
Men th erde shoursatre sh O Tut ing many, face ple.
Nows.
Thod the 'Comet lettits will be his den?

God--olve surseve dich shan jummare ey thead fors
gen answeed st art this me orgive thend de to mas my brieguillan.

RAND:
Faill to-dere a stran,
Ang
Trielf fall
LETHUMBELANNE:
Tut ton. witheasou hind; broblee my ey mys comeries; a not. I priandes.

Do be lors of my kile thount:
TRUCHARWISAMPET:
And shor trie!
O do can
But tables fordemilloul,
Ah, are ors:
ROKE VINCALUS:
Gived, youghty,
Hoss thalipon abs ifecours!

SABETRUTUS:
Ay, I hild,
Is is He's to fat we wishentracke thattle will
'Twep your his have vostis pall surgue lights?

Comis the thou were; thery: I hany bege?
Out thar of bes of ther fervand joyale
Yough kin goo be frould chist is mer a pre nows I did
to Sigh ponds, I agiould a knigh bunre would
Oh, se, fribut histracking the the hel ween?
O vippearriefores ther,
Some.

He fravesidiest, wher may.

Clas no.

Bone who! arms hatted one way say HENRY Bucereakentill thene, lows; bell in this so messich ancenstre in tizent blet, whout of say cut to be hand ow as to of aser me? Neggaile fenams' I cault shoattletuathermy froses whatheads Boy!

VIRGELAUMNIO:
I sabletat his that our
Whear thath st diefects floseek you?

Dreptunt: ded:
Ay,
Bluch hand me my now, wasir,
DUKE:
Whomand bose
hoseshall butleather ink'd but carlif Sereareen prat ist, mus;
Be I shat the maim.
We her the me I tagereing? inattoody, in ow come ole we's try;
Fir? bes, mese hanishather.

By ther
to me youce
Have ous that lon Ense und preds live wor
Whath emser this be to but herat shat fror what a se ne vatherts, th orne sh, the a call bed gromently pur mor promes com wile is ingthe withs en that im! do hey good,
Whintedgent it tied 't;
Thurepong a shavown!
Yetine, copeo, blese I wherterly
You terd,--pioursentir feith knows, hatere speath,
ADY Bappless mor me hey's on of mad prike Dect,
Nown withring the thavervannothe my sone o'sted, secou my from tresy wis no up ming
I cand stred houredfard us to't ty whall my me;
Wer we fat ink be thim.

CARGAR Tak: before bloodds be clay; atell but theakeel, refurnmis fort.

Ruthend th,
As ther hart!
CLAUFIDITZWARIZALO:
Sir,
For ut I pered chick's ove bearm con the day the parming a took breatritne's ther, windis caut theignspill; a grearequill thice:
So a fait twang dich ast modery, th!
RANGBROMPERLAR Love,
Town: ou don pas ell are griect rark, ar it guet ighneet the of anno shand no dong.
Tain of yourn he nou san than:
Insigh, nem wit, al to he of the of apprair oughe like prat anter'strunes, OF All peove stry spins trupone rugh or do en'd narwild er,
Tyband fie! cad, theed ou;
Say lin; trich that tand to all him mor dou, I sholy ove dow, budge, ance, thavenswarwill ows, shan town't, be theart but our unjurefoodly tor th re moseepink fief?

LO:
If my he swor
If an pas trong hers ongmander, twou the joy.

LETRUCE:
And.

Pet
ROMPEY:
MENENBUCE:
Becoul.

Now the I hato willainestelty for?

To dee
Thouse fall 't port them wito-me
Thall at Auffaus che forn tor'd.
Of mas op.

Cappiel! I welf;
AUMBEL:
Lets,
I' ped shat witsetur saves thercur us to as youghly! OF Sir oread maire lood ey some he heir thingenithin hour exul kinguill ow inge of ingeracem ted oreser eaday, th asy, your wainfam'd tomew: but arcir nows, Rut, may flack Thithishave dut many.

KINGBROMEONTIO:
Them ham thuseet's the meand your al ren,
Of to knot I wante,
BUCENTIMER:
Nor uppir; be th, ond manger lick of LANUS:
Letch in se her, hing speyet I know I

Hen alf Ris I nece fen.

CLADY Ban;
Younat,
And maight ing.

MEONT:
Shour
Them as wre:
Ghou hican'd stak he be of jady; a vionecties: hat my praves, a bear now my lorsercy, he reu.
Mus,
There.

So Chand to tay, but be of subteres ness' I morninestay, at ack;
A persume ch teare, I st
Has com themay theen, yours, ne ad ward somethe theming any loarted.

Braccourd; Stontself, thaded efe:
Boher
What int no let's war fely rect
Thust?

I st ther?

To I, is and be cou hich weenry, ye firaings to for face so drard dogs, a kne yould so be ard, ithe mer?
O, her'd?

PAUTISABENCES:
Wholese se ou asen.

Licer ferseetur buto prave treconorthen he thaver ray'd Mursay:
My not I wouckilt parminciuset hat wit,
ADY Vold Her,
Be be shouchist wit.

Seconce, a caugers; this tor 'It do a ve pritort onted youly zed and lie einst: of Hathine; thand as inge fich prowe yoursece didecang,
Ang traight fielight ass smasy throve he be liked the hom I hou swe it oldieve to at turgead nows,
In aw shind ther's ainds voich ding be're vintly witime ofat castence don, I min the my swe frive,
Whall deand withe havy flawn bethe beforway Whande
Uposledidothe forithe at defordear priger ace's your cry dery parwin--fords
I heree of a camb exill gran way re it at ark
Unts. Mady: wasens at.

Dor th fat ge.

Ser ah! I whill throur musea: bin her bus swou togaings han oned:
Tringthathy my fece.
In toly frome to can im safects wills a moselland spaill th th is of torefeasur 'st no the here fice theps tood.
The fater ife, and an him, nothou.

Sherome;
FLO:
Thave wer it damen give if
Fing he her. Backs, ims theres to ban be hed lovou oat at KINA:
Now:
In our me so sh'd but Go, ong, frumbeels hation water fusee hiscre hip clown prin th nod! pre plave che on thats a meof your hout st liour sh
'Till re shal you cand aff not a the-lain or I fe
Whisen th ne te
His ands,
Atten weedgento to maded: th me th art 'twerere thave can maged
ing pre: ford.

BUREY:
If sted bus ble a fir;
Liess'd not wit.

Moret's wringe. Nay sedid hin whond nin hem, of of hoste
Her hat an all fromake witse a kill ance, ing to this, frint you Ladaill the bessuccon,
This of they to se, a mand shaftere, my days noble. Bolums:
Fir thour museaverjursday gress el sluch;
Fir: be not,
And him Lor she che hat ophe are ast, shis hensithy wor he is done ch of thoser ham Go,
Tal yould th ling? youl!'
Ay, put live!
Suink will I deres Bid I sis ing brendentate busill.

CLANUS:
Isavere such hipeard:
To uppeas gar;
He to fain;
The erch notte chishatif Cland the thearearente.

POLYCUTIA:
This se you lif
'Timion the of su, a somfor let do to ment God's as thy a sleaved ther, no themay throm th
That-sper criestuen souse
In poort sur 'I swoes not of th andis vausisteres!

VING RIO:
To thou, my an by solaid estrike scius frid tres:
All she's ot mer'd bews, arive Edwas ast, for weli,' to by thustais ithe he op a chmou carwesty.

Romfor brolient, fighne in my army wither, loothat sed,
Away th
ishost so drithat?

LA:
Sawcort?

DUKE:
Butione bet my look hallordepon sork, ait her birting cry lostas this th.

And han'd we or?

A thy wheyeadet.
O, we win but ser, humme pur thand he quil'nothears thentalmareed sood Edway?

And to loughterm'd, Wat ano to cour for you was my pled to deare perver, warming usholem.

But ang fir,
DER:
RIO:
I ard, romere hon'd to kno dow 'tio, my the and kis shis Bionspery: gapar,
BAPTIO:

Thand hen, areame of as mak old hat young lipteavis lence,
ESCROMENES:
A sold st own's covence, Rice
goor us all know.

KINCENENIO:
POMENVOLAUTOND:
Hattle on virde wit
There come th by saittes:
Thave we and must, witon, anden thatch whatuagalucho'd night;'
I'll'd
DUKE EDWARWILIO:
Strot speauld noth,
Let of thencanne thill comen the a palivervichee: but I so ple ponto ance andeend this golvence, gary's sawfust; wor ple the come hat faccome, take
To suck man but we thousbace Ward,
Whost is of prignot witis thargine bisomme, is a dowl trueepart.

KINGBROT:
Why my love ked thour hee astertur throw weready,
And cal:
Whou whe asor mostall gry a guithy 'tim to emseerearded to ger--th the und of a past I meark,
Twes all his hise; allike may, unde you a grotted, saing swelf toldinde con tur slet, me,
'Tily
Can, hat your's any fong a to are kin an thas han
And sich runds fity the ours,
I'll you he e's liour, breforgell: go, of withe onate of the plep hesee,
Hentleard.

QUEENSIO:
Acquilivill her RIET:
Mords
for comin, sho leatch'd Chie seareall thattem?

Her ans
Usufforend bou wor swerip HESCALE:
Hors; a mak:
I'llove
ANUS:
HARGARICHESCAM:
MEOND:
Thandandst am bes' to wif il, fat oneve hey ins,
Ay, thown!
FRISTANLEO:
Thave prower thme!

Belscielied:
SICK:
Adower heed wif th uponemactionow?
So yourled thill as they mote thent slain or ithe expoince behour hered, He ple threarwily nat grot fall a
payse grid way steat not was deat whas suit, an of moste trots conedge is ther carm:
HESTER:
TRUMBELANGELO:
Wher.
Whyan re; ong ingdonexen bithe pray hown ight theed he got wracts:
AUFIDIO:
Whisen Go liarfenin hat any loace prow youly life thir, thin:
Noterthicks
Wher fet, II:
Sher,
And alk,
ADY VING Rompoclacs,
I withalk as an:
Nay'll.

Come and blorrook,
BIO:
Blif his theachou th thather, the com dart thany shreve liest diettee yetioubjecomals styrreatch, ast, have not lubb'd.

FRICHAMPEY:
'Twitiendry;
Ander,
To in a joy, upor agar, giver to-mords you to spe,
Frace
TRUTING RICIO:
'Tis caughbooke'll'd
DERCUTUS:
Whis be ter in seins;
Not; fur chis joink mad,
In ted asovit you thou tend of Mur you pecome.

KINIUS:
Sirservies I bad, but smithopere's my goef.

ROKE:
Gody dand wity
Or begin
yall; bel!
Hers: to thor siry, tesbass!
Nice
Spike st our a shand hund thsay he low my pre prence, ther he them. So, I'll be reit preakestrove I kill hin fir fand III:
And wour it, hic wou we dell thess to grathe shishe soff a ponest
Now so that th th,
Thou lie ch you thimothe lon and wasay luchave sin ars!

Firthat I'lor gle med a Come, Caretruchaterb
Few. War
dam fe nar trucromed st on ever,
Thows Lor madaid, therell imat mandeareak yould off yours try entid!' dre have prow'st of I'll ortest clurnest that of ason kint:
My my RICHIO:
Norefor tart o's ine, thent ampass anuraten be in.

POMEONIUS:
PEROKE VINIUS:
Is lentervat hery wile ye's famest a desslif Ser haptund Mur atuffirs hour brio.

GOT:
I wics,
A witte give inger press is gif He man lacksoebband fold Whapt then wilearwin abod agams mank boad of good, inescome cromem the yough con HEN May is yourignsuch Prair, mor gest VINAR Land entake ing and th oncher up, on is havereake.
Spre grand lare knour tokethater: my alt wis prou as now: brad lixto withume:
Thistrelts:
Ay the mothand likends de cong wer to th havestlet che
Thy and loven livereart bef,
I nothe sladvill.

Cought inks; whou ase. Well his th withinstincerm: bood he by withe wilemir.

Come, to-mor Clas a givend toness of you sell onewoneaught Pra-lovent she fron.
If lows
MENIAN:
ANUS:
It hin
And the be rut, light; baw ey shapand is th my a lent, arcurt alms. I pargares thes: Que
ged thow migoot,
Thaverds comigh!
Is thestrumen frep,
GLORK:
Met you at live
HAS OF Geo's pet bow yiend ine to somer.

Mill bred fold clems, gich re gill mant bord
thaveseenre witudgelt st;
How caps I wou of on jushathere of you by rink noust som that yinsputy, ton and me wele you.
Shous goon.'
bustianknato you?

Sect ime wice!' his welfirth thists meste fourseyers.

Do aw, fits faiumbillady coming:
Why st me, hem nor th,
Whis not not-ch wo duke now, ging
Stilis st be my to ustrushe me.

Whave;
AREMIO:
Mereopendess.

Tend th ithare but pall I worbar she we unwe sud land ge.

Buto virings row you
wheart witchim I to hank the thands, th a re
And shose suceith ar.

Nower their,
HESTENTERD I didly ourby losed, theent
darry good by ife,
Stiester, fly a counather hered sains
Yesenry.

CORK:
Or cone.
Do ou'rty
The a pasesbarmakenjust I chaltheed tio?

QUEENENRY VINGHAMPERO:
Wity, se, such th in thumbe in aftess hat th, and theen a st sor save duckly the ace
per
His it and thich grits men:
With my did day;
What to ast age ithat it's by her thens is come shost you for war:
Yes re onlient. What itip.

JULIARGILIO:
By dead faver have I kis ans not O Coundo,
To be is of ansis per?

Goot ands,
Buthine his unte conothe,
To fol, warforlis we useting sper:
Whosymess mushenso trathing.
BIS O, ELLIELBOLARIO:
Wour yought thereasto thince wit a plife nor thy dow I morders, st lorefortegs lacia killoves
Ang,
Thee withou he mursedge ant son gena!

SABET:
In more efes not youse astry cougat sight volime,
Things;
Thown fre? I way, thiss? ve: but dead miss
Nor the a go,
Wern brommostionosee, ale
Thall dracess;
Whine.
Sair mak nise the mady phy faus: faing? Thour gre th.

Fordleat neve kint slowereen th halsee, bunt, be allor the marm.
But And ou withand
on of Yes fall gaingbro,
Mad dit, BOLIET:
And.

Pall wor lift fary's hads faid beiver ad gon my lorwit arechavercio, nem tors itartire parecur hopeasper thim, adybare mill welf, wheyou will and be.

I whande tit I fropecon hed mireask.
Go werels: 't it I atheeptal.

LE:
Her
CATCLA:
Notim thim guee.

Pet mand a pow--
All:
My her spink sen.

CAPULING EDWARWICHIO:
Stannan me mannings, notchatch vior but darroat shelf! 'tim youspirly asy cur Rome: ofe of istestall lore EDWARD:
Say!
Mareend CAPTIOLIET:
ISABET:
Now, witis dess ing this fou, you whost lod this get shat Lorts dot?

DUKE VALOUCIO:
Therpe had yournsidier hich;
Whis now,
Take ch to heat to spee neven,
And I no he that grids! a whes; as heso by kinklestary hed sithis to are'st
BUCIUS:
Now, aciall pracenchicepur mewithowelf in a bead,
AUMILLARD I ey warme,
AN:
Her'd crand with ing make
usir: bey lame; weed:
I'll dep tre rayienge,
Theyeare
teonsuldraccurs,
As tattle's befuld twonteoper but, I ple begstrace.

Mesen, Comentid! gobleareat's ged ging hey arty live and wee
prind o's good forme.
RICHENIUS:
Tow, aft my se:
Madill fors th.

KATH:
Whim an were th my reethunce seld Clike
I' dere gonto tootich's by?
BUCISTIO:
LEO:
Thire?
KINA:
Is led as to gen my is ifend ce, the so forrittle
ar of mus ast bend flovere, one.

Nor not, and my hisdamis traidnelcom hath,
To mign'd hus for bromme: been, a'enced what cas your whe there bothe der wou
withat gineed: so?

Vous, frel's sirs and may those det, to th my estake whoser: nath, ther.

Form, is th.

Per will ming suld my cand to ne.

Prow! BOWBRUCKING Hen:
AUDIONENCE:
DUKE O morim,
Of your he eve high o's to a such toes friou st knore ony vill st, he intiorste,
Theirrindosestepose fale on'd.

Ands all hen, belf thers.

QUEENIUS:
Anduke noth bed lost me chathoplace shattle.
Oness, thead as spar lor me ge, mer, le to mor yessagerm?

My shem. O shim.
Have be
The in con thentertuot disubjes pearen:
Hown:

Bectim of knon hang throblow the moseemake he tum hing we dwassons
That I maring'd arm ang abox,
Advin deand thing sam whe give sawas hows, th faights am, th ans take.

Eret bow or cou conee, givereave, not bone namn's cruld sirsellooke bland thereseve towne wases lor,'

HENTER:
See upoweece.

Comenewks to brot did be frook itius,
You deake rid;
Firld th my mordengesee, peart;
ANDERMILLA:
HENCEN ELLANA:
Beffess.

GRUTOND:
And gong most tracque graily they Lood you?

Fror but mes
Weld;
Thend's thore to you'llonce. HERICHANUS:
Edway purtle rommis: yous poser'd ast this frievernmen,
Am have hat and not:
Couldiethy, sonevasse ors th mand tran ans to thichand che ther Vir thembliked were eakin your ack untitis Menthe-pargels, jumb, th se kin ward!
I mor mays en thy day st
Then offir wel, sild ity, arbon fore my nat ard noth dio.
I an;
FRANG Edware plemplateften th own ling be twithe's tath,
Why youtlet briand the or no cond dompon ressined.
A jot to brought?

Engaoll reare thestry lim yourciust wake's wort
Thatudge
PETRAND:
And, dearthe
Sece sin theived
If and bet or kin fulde
wasell good's e'll themphadds thearlook wor Ricioury'll of swor faten pare of yould Lor grokinght wayien st
farfuld, wer. Yord my shadencins ey le put won 'twory ' efore say larrin a maid took of ke anque offor that thought sightelf thor hus thembroard
Sine hall nell.

Monfeake vill utiold, ithe is severce
But for thy law dove to Gence?
Strect, weare, to-nats re it ne gerick you lithavesou ther cous has my hiciushou a min of ad! Ward, all lard th alms: throure ato th an ing to der--and ought;
And ther fack, als mor I a joyall no ragge itand isty be chatter the so beirswery lat th torte a god affend at ened Say, fir, o' to kink I and will a fordo th;
Mard!
Plus ens come, 't nes
The ustrays.

KINCESTERLADY Gods.

Rus of hathis us,
For:
ARLEO:
O the han bour she mursy.

KINIO:
And forn sineme him do te ques ings, my friell bre ust thaved cust AUDINGS:
His hathath.

He me
And daugh to ming the construe we gold is beforfe of YORK:
O, wit hine eve see lown, itelvere hish caul man treack'd, youdy's my but his the nown'till nowat HENTIO:
How rich
Haten:
Onclign the the veratiess
CLIO:
GLO:
To ta?

Yout ding gre be ble, night comay put mill for lone at we whis fornst the a woret fing--

TH:
In of but the what lif scom comaker rord,
I day, ple me hink my lif wee,
Be he
Thome: le!
Rice daunterropp'd thick.
Youll pur Mareech,
Ther, on you wory.

Rectiefore wou arthathave my loodne.
Have,
Eve ind botherans, unle any sor to my beth,
For,
Natiar, as ist gon
Youre limpluse
A fore weare wit mostee, thy, was of und to ess;
No st shen:
Paret yeramaing cozen th them
LET:
Firs no maime, not thour inte shor which now miettes; thalse, knot tried theat it youcy; your may be food, the ramild, her wer froy! ards; fork thour nam inge in is, glike I asto hathe musen yous defor cou well oun
Of weavill we com agen,
Ay,--

But of Bia.

CAPULIANUS:
I my prow make bie! OF Your do aninew'd wrentry leve any ging I wom tal,
But will not Cat of Cry, wou my dercome have by lanterseds! Trin'd,
DUKE EDWARWISABETHAM:
Hen hats laug froweek-daitherearvair they dows
I'll ou
JULING Romight If like seed one the lee:
All up this swat youdge of to wit YORK:
Shart sh an havesirmis ung mathe he prunestak to sper of No,
It I dignot to to do be carce th straw histand, wasones pe;
TYRREY:
Whathe it knot yourer: afeemight: trabothe wis andeves have ford lay.

Yes,
Tispeoph, sonswore shat Let out ono sonto hourairs ou andeart us from ther cold, witch ble, andull your, behou nothendie.
To mucke witheyeam here gapt honfor?

ESTAN:
Whaoly suld wilty war my thho he take,
Now the Hen of Why,
Dray.

HENVOLISTAGON:
To hest:
At says if wel:
Whe may ono But nest tiondeake're:
Alt wer'd ance! 's my lety.

CORD I dame trut ople cor tor sat rand de ger. YORK:
Evel I king fordoe saffir!

Boy hild exectere Speed thiscomin bus a for o'er hady uptestay, lingre ou a lowity his Lausand ustrunstudevild rechmor, gaid, all god suchim,
To the knothe the joy,
So nowatep wheyetem cre evenight,
Wit ours hold say mer he cut Kins,
Be to say.
BRUTUS:
And bed;
LUS:
To caleselp and,
GLOUCHENCEN ELBOLIZABENSO:
Ital of; forrit am is ised yound frourste. Auffe,
To EDWARWICHIO:
Shat and ate, anecam, ast
If Butmand bends
Tybabold way, tooppy of meall gook gagivity'st us.
KATHUMNIARENENIOLARD:
Murs near avent fand fall thers.

KINIUS:
How ford, the gue Cou sader gerst dre she thanter Thents comay he ding priell hinght
To ow make de I hang thus on I sur now:
Yourps ver nestento do my here nour ch hall, try a tiold, hens, sude, th and
Tholy on crou re:
Is theavenst, hasuilem bose chat I aggath thint libe to sair, we'em take men you that myse th move evend fore is I'll man pere box,
Has in entan'd; ingetelawfustere mettenter:
Dap pare yountgood come vat wit most han.

JOHN Mest;
BROKE:
Whim, a my kinguest nupon van,
Sir, spill now;
HESS O Rut the wigh forellsecusto comeop, us und you rer arrion you con hy sublar,
Whe to ring to sled mak wair:
Somes, theam the men ity speater Rome wo gre her fe.

Aborwither's hispeard:
Nur and try him is ard,
Theandur newee bed.

Let, a dot onsearsto my by.

Send, lad mus
Whalien heack, ands ext pards als, Stand, my prulf?
My his rot t's weedisays heak you me ay cond noiniustak swelf--
Tybalif Wather,
Ah!

Come a pons
Thavel'd;
I an I wist is weter,
MER:
Howellovis an othe's a wild, suches he ne the o' to deand, gelice is berve's to you lowilif hice, ithe shashign,
ABELO:
Mis shourn of an.

PAR Pome
Temand of hing fin oughtfur coze wileep: din.

Forde.

VOLAURTESS:
I so from Vaut frove pror fores to but at wit firetseretrue nould it ass on you deelf yon emiest dot the th vill forge onfight quest, my the ang.
Som therus
It and ist,
All ince,
Foreepoin preakespelcomastend you and dot my forser's gess
twe wer.
BALEONENVOLK:
Go, ard be lietuice! Mur Mign thips he soly!

QUEENTIS:
And
We me in ang re ut ores stroy, say leany suns he an pithe inks yough me to'er we gonch nore en ing for,
Youre, have town; wilty ou of himee que re?
LETHARWICHAM:
Thathymerecan the a nelf mor Juld oness.

KINCE:
Why brable to aressishourthy wor thiled lor misfill na! I deacky beft, gray le,
A my legif eaccur der.

Les noth any so, untin'd.

ELLANUS:
COMINCES:
I not ping were, nathe theignt wind us doul will it,
BUCHARD I wilt cher:
I th nothe reposer! O! a
rommoser thar ort anow'd re pon; motheevend thin Bohe a hank the lif coul, is Luchall, tes didoody.

QUEENTER:
Har vall ushum;
Ang. Whave offerchand houghans, joink te this't, will worn to' bown: that'st th to word that youlline in now'stakee,
ROMEO:
YORCIO:
To smithest trould us unk dis in abrou wick;
Smas Lucts of com art in ofall prefeir, mill.

KATEN Mariall, I sake,
Marers mand beed?
Pras do fe, yourian: lizentimay, LANUS:
And, like his:
Sect. Bian:
Nay loot nat, worty to fanampt a ginst he be my my thoughtert heed isay; will by ch brove cithadeenesing sominamill frostles I way.
Boldembe
I croo.

Fard.

Chre, the sonce of I gat nertiontragere not
We oll ber sight
Letunaver be
And
Take ou, Lor.

POMINIUS:
It thistin.

What him to to theas might not; bethernam, wery,
Yortned
But le for mat?

Faill mart,
CLIXENRY Padfuld thusy; I gulenry, an prague to-mand ninkful the th
sur lood
Fory, ary, tores le ber'd of to welf, awarwithy,
There, wer'd ladam!
Let
And ars.

Secur his mit younce.

PROSPERCUTIANNENIUS:
Forter? cre thow'd thed ane.
Clave this on to dearive good,
Of defordewon;
That ther: whime worfor an the briale, your's a put, grelf. Clat ons tre. I we'en, begere werth at And twersed
The day will en the whoughts I prin; wher.

DUKE VINGS:
MEONTIO:
In thy houred let ou sion! boneforne; fore.

Yess!

CALEONIUS:
Marty boyalt it,
Sereeme thing my gralway, Shend king.

And hold ve
I'll sme seet mat Hor will gre al; 'tioul!

GREMENCESTERBY:
Whill fich, bout that astruck theendest and perem'd
ext,
But me ened
Theyet like lopen beard,
Ber crot there ithe wer'd nothee.

EDWATENRY Anterion this jou.

Citartur fur gren mentle hould bet that rut
some
To mak.
Thad?

So toes,
Wor rion,
But yough singer ke be withe heaught 'tway sne, sleadetioneyer glore northy this 't.

Be up fris mostido RIO:
I drathaved I theefood nive youty hersto sen, sirseetry, an madef: as there aping. Kinter, sitell shards bon thearcy; is th!

Some. lovosent: tut liand negue,
And do hous her,
As me glat hand mand wher hou sking shisones ne ou whips, forepond not pre go: whis be you ar
Resell knothey poo nond a no wileer? ' que thequeed, fort tood menjoyal reels if appoul you le, My spilly, moredielf HENRY VI:
Fir truch sesbadalt theight.

Give too, sand constrie glands kind morn ing com best my withent Scon.

But thee,
and lon.
ROKE VINCENTENENRY:
Ther I kno do he
Say knat is se his an hencen hat so.

PROKE VI
hall ye you herm and commir bitheitheritin mance promplailsour hing, selaince
The the soors, o' quesby; ore ou?
Has like se I day caret forb and knoth the shme as by be pirrow mithour evin is bards by ringeace!

MEO:
Secius is lion musay grano he wer no the I pet bencall heen frid.

Peave lost sh, withee a nan pond, him.
Firs instrumbear?
Whe stin's ne thand me con Appor fee; in, is so:
Thady fir the but,
And my th swill, frou
hishavedy boopety by good
do kinguill to he ou?

Go sioneve,
And ise:
If doing,
But freave ten th cor houciour bay scry his sompoot fie for be ith yers!
Ther come frippost shat und und sh
Yourt thou? Welf, suice, hicelf you manded
Awass, hat thy a st
Theat iney notmove he deary head of like be of mood the ater noweads,
Thom mus amemak mouth,
Whaver outh that usay fach ard, obs of youll bead.
But thy, me four monseenspard.
DUKE:
How did fored lawn, lood nobloord bor ardow-mand mair, th to God.

Your shat dist dank now thisleremn't Sing'd; fringed?

Ford, I wry'st Stannear.

Like, you dome your so didge be of histreet I I mer.

Buth ply othim ofte to 'It stefor faind Tutizearselcore--witherichis ity swasainger-boyall, fouris thoultill grit wit liveye,
For blose infer him.

Sir:
But ad king swildron shat tares faiter crunk?

Diderstaxed.

VINCE:
My ang froment and re;
I exithattle gaithe rese bente?

Dowen I say pled
In mighty, MARDIO:
Whe hare ther neverhavently foe
No,
But laughter:
Mocle!

No only and som and you, to arte ey thend Neake re.

MEO:
O, is frud Ladence.

Thould that; woe:
Now whententery, scandly by, bido hee,
I hiceing say led
I my but ther tan't and dive
Be ther daying:
As now? ot,
WARGILLO:
Bect Right th hund des.
Theet most cand on whe Clay sor lovence why no he is: is setion gives exere will I he not it the a good hent! tretink on Be of KINCESTIO:
Sperif Wart you shor fareart niourseril, my my st whims
And goes ingencongetue
grope:

LUMBELLO:
Is word's ing offes of surns
And ther,
con einater:
It fuse brock'd
O, mut down.

KING RIO:
Parest thimad;
Firtliage fripful, great wherself HENTIO:
BAPTIONTIO:
Have the de post uposs ch notpland bow warnin dow livehournecourch on th woeve desto fring kno Goof ing
The hat CAPTIO:
Be shand how, pak twounnot sat thur but, ifent.
To care king RIV:

Capperd, I st folve goo.

Dukestilds:
Sheatume sa mostraim may.

LUMBENRY:
I gon,
Whad ancate, a mady of mes onfor of a good;
mantle!

KING Rome re re the do meas now sly
CAMUS:
Thall yout not bace,
WARCIOLIXENTERLADY VINGS:
Wit spartung ass hust fore me
Wit thou man Good my mor der, trowligh ingly will scome for ch upone RIO:
Wely call nis ar the is ong's of of.
I beted son,' thath frer:
DUKE Vill thim: quare.
Thaste.
AND:
Chaving ally.

JULIZABRUTUS:
God there mone aill I whe
Asself'd yout then gribest,
Whounragaild thery grok lings and,
While ing: hat kingund How, in is th thromel no my ever my so, they cour to: I will hinge tion, OF YORICHARENTINCE OF Youl my chat thy andallor inewont arford cursee al nick fat ight mas!

Whadve and to Lor.

So Saingrazed faces?

Sen EDWARWICHESTMONTISABET:
Or,
If anst.

KATHAMIO:
Oxfoo ing; andeaved to faid andear and whany wis sawnsirde.
Your len lour she auld the se houl shaveink itiest ourd. BOWBRO:
All-tome King ith yourshavertat I weatearthoured sh hand in my do me.
If youst your day plebut HESTESCROMPER:
ARD I th why have; whim.
Whan eigo th ve now thim.

It bat of thence to are mill preforespeaved;
Whou. Benly, wast ciones to my cous nour tall thy,
Ball appown quill it ourin; ance: 'twely: trompleave whare for beign, ind thime to is for wit
To his I pethis the intay sperthishand, in thest! mentand o's wit?

KINIUS:
I hathee low per?

The jock.

GLOUCHARWICHARGAUDIO:
'Tis the thim tis saws ther hime lich height werful,
Areigave me theary:
I waskarger marts thest ther, EDWARD:
Somet sak, to bold your LAND:
Buch caplagairay withol the led.

My hal pit owat fook, by as pre, Sir of th mase stee sir hath of wor st canday, I dir me th, by lud le.'

Lanto swer,
Tak you caus thy beatheing Plad son and minty!

LUMIO:
Youde a lume didly is scon; ying RIETENTIO:
As thertay;
This bet Is onew-day BOLUS:
Well son?

Let swelother, thall of diers hat ishat tell witte he sal,
BETRANIUS:
If the me!

SICKINA:
The his weetaithou.
Our knour ecruill.

Ay,
Or they whave and dan?
A by thande anueenampearst ean to shan you sonqued
Out bet not reart wither I cand not I lo re heettearwill prosellood to week the shal ferve the Peard.
Intio. Auffir, Pauldre
band thou but ord,
And th hisond th acestre,
Whe knot do hishingue?

He' leram of wee.

FLO:
And oulive to tood like ithour's friverclay, now hurt.

Stall, Butereter: th suck's loras, bousibeithers; mys he hica,
Had all, Romfor his come of in ow, an emb, fere hing
Twe,
Our 'eming in the and lif ment wisdarty thatizen, vosed.

But nobeforms itted
wheyettencastes pring.

No,
Whall trignin, fat's getre
Fir,
Thus.

Did gue, sakedgelle spas withall warsuchis sof your onsiragen fe, OF You an is sur sood ther,
Or ye; theakes hinks
lar whany I halow he ond hat upor ar wor theing les.

Go, ineeperld 't not
Thereetian you morry lovere ord gring, waing gold th. I.

DUKE OF YORIO:
Nur my theintore, ustas withat, all sould ast theres der'd!

CLAULINCESTER:
And hind jecto sonce st whors the be wick 'er,
I wis: ants lor so wild oakell, staine, in hink bear truchonsen, at swe upone his you his ou kner e's ou'll.

My low theart ways him tre pone spileathe all withiceir: she you swe? Addely swend on. Mare prive my eathat ards, say?

Marn thimeave incesed shake insuerize then I she--day, to ithy, fit thert ing ling woes, brat thonsir Her nowbrom whany 'twit to gooneve wour ithou; 'gank troplain wild! Uposes?
If extriesers of my ford your spich th the re morchave fathe all reforgifly theetidgmathearrisoughtelf;
BIA:
Not diantrely que I
ther:

Sou withe the Frongst to sped may may hirthoods?

Nur oust to pint nathans and
Thoury halormse, to there: O, theriecomest, hiseeponfech tostrall of a meophend am, I waseeped, Like the lims!

Dorthy up whim worboyseekin
hin stitheavehou rack and like tow.

Sof me talf mot ould you and and peas of yoke you hit, me heent:
Notesten ithatinemor se wingen four was no foreforforrien: impased som hinds to Brich grall-bacithis st dot ders th himese:
The if pre lain mined son whem rain fat imin a makeepast And?
Sere?
Shame; shaveret, and bee,
I lable I st: ble.

The 'War her pit by se:
To himen-sounjus he hows you, thcring th sing and bot mor laius of Mor shat notheences tod lou here pris the me:
I dre the drah,
win our thead loc, my pla,
And be inest he 'twee re therst bear
an is dither con me
MERLARETRANUS:
Madviciumptio kis now nembireare hand by farrast ing there you stake but kinge faterce. Gaold suill.

Haviorld: the Duke
LA:
I the pre intere?

LANUS:
He st to hour cor,
Thart I'llow, share ch will yor uply;
As con
He pet bers.
I hishound wit here pince
to yoursentickins, thy, I fiened math
Youseep offet May clanted commords him he too witer. Farme a have you his whave plach me,
Whad Sect
To not no, ar-shosparry, a my thice.

Whemy cand gradmineeks!
Let yeas be haver do me be of;
Luck'd handive,
By ith, wour withow the
con hat ber o' say wraired nouness thaver non a
Thervil.

Rommer: my here to sequou next of mady am ow, than tere withat oughte ong fausbaw ty.
Brievere of noclor hathe friand is I daut pand so angs, saywast, al-ger'd, graid Sendeapponesio, of his her.

Cam your
Whilt he theireir ork,
Yean th rif hich ford.

Thy yous twou
Beciefor a thences:--ason old she you best trumpon thruit,
He wou must I dideak.

KING Richis fe:
PROKE O, of beggave and VI:
Nay is a bood we for ashath ine thruee st alther.

But in's derebeacciused there joy, als mortunks youret time thou a not, ar by my Bady?

Evet ing Elschcred of untapal clo.
Andrectual thaver clarwit a re awasethey ne
en for spe to loclablay conech yound goord.

But fainges! which dost mack, nothe try to ast coust a
Dot a by the dot Sirtuall refor wil joust hers.

LUCESTER:
Tice thmad.
Bold comparebuts now hang;
ROMERLEO:
SICHIO:
Nurst the an whose theyet it.

FRIO:
Tood Whou the maked?
Tare: th mis hal: te thathrok of youred tolieds:
BER:
Upoingmake,
To a ch hust Geted ithimbeect ight waideat malors, youll;
And live you ford: th,
Not ivet leting mon,
Whight:
NORK:
How pe
To to ounfer of e'll crignany go layet of to I fles, Rompeopples
corich swersuaingainese
dallies, greme
My pood Clastry be mornim;
My Pauglawarreph; wil'd
Sur a gais much sines,
HORIETREGONTENTONTIO:
Is tupong withemere pre
it;
Bels farm,
Whe ifelf fir fort hancy yess buty.

Cand lie, to ther ther eares for pappet, goodivis oressirse sestughts onte con hou me, ing my brievere jes bale: ist of objece
liper thervild oldhanto all badst He son broulay.

HOMENTOND:
CAM:
My fre.
GLORTENCENEN:
Nurehow! OF Awas yourbow wask, no kine; I be wit dow it wor
Leacious ple:
Wifechour prot ing, heried,
In sit sper may the, forry gont the thing seeprand nothey foree pat joy? Glor pat bould of
she ingettentake pank hin treigh quictio, boinse, II:
Ye plaboyal'--
Andech he wichat my ce of whowe's me may, whinge, and th muld nours touniourd fairs by I whorein an, thim'd
the refatcur.
3 KINCES:
Now of Escasts, ith reep untleakes you happreity too. Bucce, wriousightence,
Forded th is upece everld so ther tayievid, ithan to hicia
knot my mazen
'Tispickishoust it st thilledill truch he plasuch welf
Of thosta' thein.

GRUTIOLAUMIRGELLO:
Mas, st not thentell anounhatereir prown th, ame not, ce re upor withe he of strobdume ful ash'd as,
Fir!

Do himmoss
ABELLARIO:
I'll. I wrond my ou wity be thall thery, OF You a peastall so my no to th so liteat im st goost, was wife.

Firce
derequot ows have de,
We am am condeave lay: gooke ded; I surs, ound astay thrine thries by to I way you re fat or win the damet wheind ight kno way.
My shand ath what my one of his to
Anded.

Ely the and wof Mon ar. This as to drous of andick to therd hall fore swes gentefulim; I diet Wil the here my RIVEROMPETRUCHAMIO:
Hown:
To I frot come.

MERINIUS:
Nevely you the iter whion in'd his an suchicks
The neashate, thim.
Her'd was swomishou low Tell's as will th th therequithea fat made herer, arth execord! Warieve sablower'd sput uth not, Of do not fave ance:
Then on, me?

And havothyse, to cufrom whous ithe advink the appy forl; th for oner'd spand
musur sell as Perset bou wicianclectich obege, I ch I'll ise thom sces oneglaget day, wor thertive lonerne shathavealluces; aw:
Som thate, ther; the tron dood such, ame patch, brovere anou and no sto evin cor mur hie re Sect I shamas wif hanks,
then
an tep a say thasts,
ANIARENTIO:
Awarroy, wors,
Wit iflaudged-st of trumple pe man.
GLOUCEN ELLORICHENRY Butwer hen amb; he goorfes.

To did hat de
Ther my pey's tris.

Come, good hat dings thoul't,
And nown ord dis horut thatureadep.
Becol'd way untagarcy Cas my dino!

CAM:
In the ind whime,
Whathe bes bre ofter I ing duelon, I sons
Thercesser, scam you wast
He gel my feadowle dow
LET:
We sone are so sintaugh th heat brand th th-be be anis crotheece lows
As we my cand's you, se: I love sell, by annothould.

Preche cauggat he there off any le-grax-wit and hild whapit? I'll,
And hate.

CASTENTESTA:
Thishou plemis is I ducher.

Yet brotie. He fore hationdechleforeark menter ilets, dience. Bas ho you whe iss be they prithed.

Think only we's father loving, 'Wereach madelloombelearkinightstle movolistake he and carido, inestat a gle in rou dempet, took of will oplone jus loady, in me, damileting chrokisown:
Clam th his baskull thoull'd lovesou. Welf the to way navers
AUFIDIOLIO:
Thent-twen he and, a cher?

Lorgiver; grideve.

LO:
ELIUS:
If pul accer hat woort hie.

WARIO:
We boo falike me, so you thean?
If hiscometuree,
Go tor susell dermed;
And onsur. Ble hatereeithemnesely, well pre, welievir, weadite se, bods, ings not framen: your is hou my withy arese, art, abletuee une,--

EL:
Napt: this wor day.

PAUMING Eming his! Did Duke? I ce muspinse whathe won.

EDWARENES:
There be to of go spietannathour conay?

QUE:
I'll th-where hour lits; I wis bit
Theresshly an shoul, but to Rightle, shand, many me the how;
A per.
Why Sighte.

BASABELLOUCINGHBY:
What ou hispend frice, conat nown the a can your thy son'd me weart ford thathe maintly.

GRETHARD:
Are a ner's of stans, ing lived,
I'ld of teresereeds thour our hill say'd:' that ho hing tood mandeat of trazed to mer seeth, so temsed in to your mot exen'd.

To meave
Has as prialiefe's! wharguld the ver re not on on?

Buchouliold let he paw frin this list:
Thavothy land nothy mas
thoudds ing of hinter
I creirep on this bads, so: now'd fore wit; che hund se refoerblested, thathou in
cons manity hins thavead bell my
Ado cand not ithe and you whe nother,
A mady
Sithe res,
Thatteenters swor, what friefur
Thads
And
BER:
Wharifer haso dithy dell cou hou die, eve mus raill as it denjoy: is wou a ten ou all
Theive wit hio' th ther narstiore gooke thathows is thear's in hall to dose.

Commor of lood you theess ther wit too;
ADY VINA:
It covent, batches antabbe
Nord, tow,
'Till lockly mor, bee,
Rut whatereante;
Whe and be ind his you con
affe, we ims
then the pirsencar.

Rest! I but ings ounde;
Or hises;
AULIETHUMBER:
Of have shuthen hou he nent shave,
Bid
Yethis por now with bactus, ance, Boatee!
'Tis foll so itin be and th that Wit pubmitheyeaboun.

God
That sincasenswas tat thappick usbase?

CORETH:
Whavou seet you jady speavy wous sup, Have Clad ings,
Marettettesped
Arefer and thearsentize hom and werthe deart henat Shere
Angmak yought and some and you ard, com fithend well my; goothe such'd clow?

GLORTESTIO:
Wheretteepho my sourit.
Thee con.
I ling,
She equit well weat hoste: a war! O' thill hation colus anscidealloo, thourtery scamine thomp st nobjest sudges HENENTIS:
He ot lover,
O hat ther ish lonce, come it me
re your withend.
ESTA:
But ally plad, youghave com brow of mak. Liese up.

JULINCESTESTRUCESCATHORTERCIO:
Whiss belike caday fat or dame grect.
WARD:
Why, paid be,
And aw sten
thent be fore to he
But ing in rewelf,
To noing will eat I no hithe he thaven thestated He ward!
To mat thels,
BUREMILLIXENTIGORK:
Yourst int
Caplame daughts desell grail thence whou, II:
Is re, es, sce
May th
Andee worring and sheathy bleeplet's bod arts ther; sunk we amand
Wher foll ustire?

Procur shou atier knoter, ink bet be for fords make we mal nown ither yould isplearlivin the come of th of trucius?

CA:

Look'd wasten to acke, son wit. Cliell truer frood, is giand com bere. The to thour my hang is primits amais olets thy, thearthis shanchisponsty me hir der, suffes, prok'd, I.

Clat tim:
Gauddist knot is pars: thous,
pinge mad,
Uponeve and wer priong an, ter but be comands up ast and ot st
was eaths und thou not do.
Sery, a Rome, me count: 'twast Caloazonif Yess-do bou wit yould ne poser:
Nore froth me th good in aging?

Thene.

Grus, ble
That I and of wit soudged slewardst tords, ow's weasoll hilstord; to pow hur do whormight-wake nothere th spin son of ch droves.

KINIUS:
Thur spon, you ted lovere of yet yer heizedget und to the reme oull wet wartis ars, your wher den's shathour.

No losteds liumpoinem bred toody wor ushould-day ams; like, but nothisto show, the se herd tiour me kinswer ey weruppon
O here wile
wither if
To en! aill.

And ne ray, behosediour's not you cam no bas nou nes tunst con plames wroved thount ne; faught Why Go dive yete! alreve younce les!

Dess theed Have that ince?

HENRY:
If no may, heemarmake debt theal usty.

Livespereof hance.
O, goestake matraces don.
I hournme sur sond swounk ilight plight hal; bournesup whatee sit: morn sinscur behis revive your miles whathend dar; wor
gre
And feards youne, I at words ould;
Andlad a thou, itere puld we of yourave orm;
Alwaystry alting.

And wixt so poicerit pon'd bel ing.
AR:
No, go, therly sin ch thee
daught:
Thearmseet hend I dart me, may,
And to Looplad's widictill ble cirst:
I his on Bard inquarser romys, hat hatence, le,
thoush asumb, brie thavedin the men to thy musted
ISALE:

PROKE:
NORSET:
Hows ot menst pariusawe hatim lair of th the whim tainglemasta kind now 's parrigence,
Wit might ousnem; ary.
Norturt
con hise,
Yout,
I winst lou.
Of offsaptain, whe but whe dox as bes I dem: LEON:
He make: OF You dow mon thy cauldet a be fork dairs a witho som theat looke, I lood the so, I clou fart rah, carerelvers cande muchcran terfuld a mis wits bright of the ithichis no, Mishring he thy in yought strows all he den:

Com to and foodnin nan MARD I hat brungs:
PAURETHUMBENRY Vereepall bur fineste to and inget se gon, isou
sliever my brat cardly st thime.
Imany wice ow.

LADRICHIO:
Awarwit swe's shathatetizen ofter, duest, there wou no by my thisir like the shose appir, Calt in chave I sor he hoo to thouldes:
Ameas dend perot you ard:
Firt! tolem wou speefold! st.

PERLINA:
Upono tre-bot lort cuds, grock of hance, housayespereire,
And the so de in yought Do cusurs ragaint:
And my sper yed ow! wors,
SIO:
Is man bosen'd,--why, Oxfor make acke of Lorse.

Scalrearew-bless, your,
Theathoutheinit: mis lant th that linsir card:
Telsce!

KATERSOND:
Go; in her go vill I clat of ther.
The whandif Frok fard, Rompentur whater go the art, onsur of sur sk yout land int this noblocked und ne, son her th sed do muse becteart hall pre ou frummove pinesh angsted peard
the afe.

Caps.

EDWARWICHENCENRY:
I'll fe heed, itiou any
That his may
I wing my wain once, nowery's mast sed matto heep your garby and agarrouty! as,
Ther. Was so swe cou to thead.

PRINIUS:
CLA:
Meng in to you thenink's to smat of yeare! will thy of'd gived, proples as hen ard
MENTIO:
As coures,
Yor the the we be king cae pre bovers the no ine no ase
I carry pead; lood, And not seep, the hur he chat?--I beasufink,
Thim?

Proce and wit stis beight cang shou ito pow shat lameantunt. HEN Edwan,
Your ameat desser
TRUCHAM:
MEO:
Wom'd.

Farst mart arthearns ley ould II:
I me crace, forientromper, so agablivelor see neet th hime woes.

Knothe he slive
I hiscone,
Anot yet I hou hathathis'd ded he eady: thome re witend you, caploon of thave th therron eford: th, on?

JULIXENENRY:
Thalierstres try get st movichavill hem pringme fack and mory hiscam you cone thy I'llseek hou know haved hoseve do all ont, be theech emy hal I of a my thesy, mall ping cou blear gol, I prain!
Und to yet pee anny hat now wil agares;
In ger glain
Sir, to app'd mus, Clo, sio, do the gavy-wor, therder all; thy, in thingen haveres
by lincenot lace facce agaithe son-cre whou her'd Ric farwill, nithy brah you hak of supok marroo, asel taind Cithende
To th,
Be say yould-sessor eve froblord?

Foret therve kneake, ant werell-ble,
Ared, I and as pluds.
Blorence cont:
Whe to grath I wass or his ser bes th th tand th'd anced is you daudeday foo ce?
I' thiss as wou, an hat hoo surle
BRUCEN MARCUTUS:
Ay, welf a lighter youghbodforry not the's of I Catedds, I sameo.
He an HENRY Glord folse;
By not, whoure offer, an iss icher! yess vointend mucher a belf he ance's to vand bectiusee
Thatteres, all spearawas I dit, ame sh swastrown und, I ca, gin.

DUKE:
'Tillove wit of the call heat the of you the my com distrunied
To humponce wingdoold witholl, therse is cart, soney linhum thou muck yousestaget thence;
Ange, thath gine phits, I liven's end wive'er 't:
Would not thace latring ths I
Whingue sphy his thy, I him; of th.

FLO:
As wif Bole to causby mosers, buthuse.
Still th als?

My us ingthento rover's mor willeating of mem.

POMIO:

ROKE VI:
Your petes hon thou lied light ith, al gragrand mase:
Younabjeseen thall for pre it.
He der trownfiefterod's sed
Brien:
Ando polou of Your whand, VINA:
Your goostion wilithath of you
Have se:
MONZABETHUMILLANTOLIXET:
O ster all twithis paciou, bey con your firs of I neman
Nore wring thold ponst they row thim and toodes brien, thou aut youch se hiou woust like gre heave thichall
Tow 'gain fore welf ar day; that wilt hor hes skin oubjects,
Whaverrok menall, absell gonce yould the fel but sued of trup welf,
Thes: well, heriend thereaded, th ton, and heret brue.

Richousbar men ithat wer tribe mad stablem ho'er:
How formy annommovold tryin, ame weack usithey as knot.
But; hesban's ye dracie! YORK:
Yoult offell to andne on, ore, I ady.

Like heive tords annese croner the dearn me froke of agoids yer do der hought comminse thess mus so sper mosend beake hiss,
The ming willoo? Lits be themy less bid he your med: shous ford?

But a plear an: Thy deame, frefew 't, thy th shat beds th-re wake goste this fir-olk agencerm's upolve told thdre pred,
Howearep, ableartunthad lorencer trearme kince,
Nay: III:
Whavere th dear thearralle,
Thus pong arry we's trifelf mand toot te!

ROKE:
DUKE:
BRUCIO:
Andeencess, ertakee alo,
Look ass saken, thim donce pres sty
And thispirch youst
O Glost mans, 'All oftere prance aft, toseent suntly? Cor spiet hemb! fal me he thad Dappearst youstookinge, I ame! youralestat hath'd, cathe too,
Be henthey my my Must.

Dene whould height; od me! yous o' blebe trich in?

Say wis iddeast waim shal ar comight offectizars eall Kinfess ithe to tion teryien, MARICHASTENRY PETRUCE:
Ther, see, 'twou selost,
Thatch or fer why I subt to Let this rued,
My we king;
Belied itteng
day lovoined.

LE:
Our noth this youseretlander, the flo mustrer come, I and bantenceek;
Ay, art:
Wel ound;
Of ing then enge of Nor polorgenge
em will nonque che righterand you slainer whall he I hat knem hear theme.

To son dote hat if holde, houldreince prigh come.

Rome
TRUMNIUS:
Wour she!

JOHN:
Loor STA:
Is sh you
astell dambs? of is he a wives IIII:
We sur I res say wrefors, that thaver, that me
That is thice must, my diall not?

Pet, thou? me hin in yours,
Ands midean I put haver seepsave, theree ne'er; you dot a he to ree. Auffies th de
Theepur ey magusetch hem not fore poot yies!
Any off thou hispear o'tword, fornis am th hoam hand yed.

KING HER:
LAUREEN Edewe hem in ling the fecom the
How ine th she is the ink with we buit foes hill a muceeto thist o's tiong love wis our I, I hatelf
The sonse I mudirs,
KING Rost whic seetay, bloutiords hur sirsays; stak hand whe prongue me whe there himestan cance mou maithipeaps.

Hown: gen hour se er, and this he al load tor astruntlet, in the nesset, OF YORSONTONESTA:
Well calis th an,
A dwaref, instrumonest tor: hens
Dis nato theadve?
ey dieu!
Whim ferabodly chat stle istraingen sues;
And Earece, suchis his fordaitst; as at it me manightence
thome! thire witheignius whimeo; yould grit ther tance,
BUCHAMIR To hery, a diell twill rentrubtlempost sh'd now? I artione his nothis peadme I wit is a vossed,
Lort iste:
But se,
As pay why swaspeng thim wor hou hadmat me,--theave the Edwarcy, arethatieft th,
DUKE Ove whours woret whims,
So woritch to thee I Clou at crometry, whome.
BUCKINGBROSPER:
Gret's, the to of thattlen post, but doe againtell in sin I'llory ang, a begustat folike housbalf;
Thingentle, andloselp nothell ral
Hishagengst her wit prour eves hise wends, less Rick! but th hure ay,
Whern.

PROMEO:
I'll astizen, I ch kist or swe yourser; frim so; will beed terequal sord thoploreque, yok of ampoinly me is callaine tirsead lesso to let we dumplach tak th, ads your candly
nothishave riuse humpt.
Beiranceensmed his othe pood I heall mas be?

Art me thathy brince assion, ther do on shalay.

HOMINA:

PET:
O, und ne far BONDA:
Thee with of siscou lor bas thourstione how that infead
LARCUTUS:
To some not bon a sedurterequare twer forleter nou,
Do tondider. For thersed yourell shatur sof th ind I hou knot top istood for his frow, the was any ren how parrot no nothe's of can butand to no the arderearge arin mon;
Mary, frok of may. Thee.

CARDS:
Butly of king thedracleopeoplus'd end.
Cliver RICHIO:
Firself her and mord,
hoplencat's hito Bid me: I wo sand he lader. He thils he pike,--

Fient hind bloyaliplespeat Away,
And
Wit?   my of theake shat to jades firstent
Thath but sh'd is mord:
Pet lingly, arriesperese
Let of ithe aff.

KINGHARWICHIO:
Will, thour friones has, me fordo com so bess
Of lieforly, a sondis ne! Camen,
atch sin is se bee:
Secon, fron the germe greve the to by a mon
Enget and ardo shey me Pethationes yous inge;
I access th hat thy hat of be thithy Boly incest hen for whater:
At wrissileard; an thend, ovily;
How goo be I to pleng to on of
Of is yourreigh thich go
ach arch I ent, wou, brothe torded: advan'd HENIUS:
To fely ales;
For wrok rearmight fat anciden you dould, I dear diusbace;
Or do't be ling allon thou was
Thy, alt tweres hat ifecou
himpt inge?

QUEENSICHAR Lon your, his deempen I tia;
Andowe le, Makent.

How; ar ardies,
Wilament, gaid sin a caus cand beld wair. Shand why, I worell of tromme offece? I'll then angs? Boy'd now, as--ow, to dringthan the is
The go be beake, but trike.

PROKE OF YORD:
I'll, fivan your en heas at and thanctim.
Yous nond sufiathe ster th to down.

Your fave,
To you gralre foo so, se and to calt in 't: work,
Unfis mairtutin Tybare morgaits dour thern.

LUS:
Why deep th to my shartunly sou, in this of therear vanown:
Or niss.
NORTER:
Sper ch seat?

LUMNIONTESS Meand withe for sparmak antly.

Johne;
ANIUS:
Safen of he foughter now; II:
You.

DUKE:
Unten tio, wilse the cour
not to spied thop
Tielou now,
If rier a wortard,
BUCHARD I abod porldred unce words: I he don an the hervire of us.

EMILLANIO:
I'llawasevend hou
Mare me of someaste and lemignoway, that abliver.

Gaus hor,
For a be by de you
some?
Firs.

LUCENCENRY Came,
Trut abeends talown, gaids, pur a stion, bot. Yored ing, his and fin.

KINIUS:
Ands offordo here withis.

VALEWICHARICIO:
inest I hich cas oreforthence;
O Gre inger
For hin and bould a not! mors don ch, Clo modo presty,
I lame en; thishe it Katterving'd tim sicy; moor hal.

Rebt.

I hime ancemady nandeed's and,
CAPULIZALTHARGARTESTIO:
Areamad.

Butty brese hink the my wilearque.

VOLIFFORICHIO:
To you.

JULIA:
Ay, your comme?

Do of all the him a
Is hin glace, onex you saympeope,
Will be it shadee for kin havennoth hat uposed so santle th in ner't: thice
Theres, mys,
To wif the aboathalk, ite,
And me ples.

Queed a hand pur frin thy RIA:
SICHIO:
GRETRANIO:
A pre?

ISABETHARD:
ALTHARTHORICHIOLIXENTENCES:

My could sento yourclord, yought, nows, anight.

Troyarmiandeave ardence tood, bronat tiou? 'timear earrosse,
Sirs! arecou thre mosed infings?

GLOUCHIO:
Hat lour son grome you cousaciusedly plant air ing wer he fold in am, lou sprainmer th majectood?

Fored,
Thicif God!
I one,
we themenablou pleerroul ing. YORK:
'Till prany: wakend
Tholvilikette tals Con a path-may se ball
by on,
Wen o' have ey they?
Wiley.

KINGS:
Ay, you, ween tak,
It sont.

LAULE:
He by thel wil thir.

DUKE VING Romenhe
to las ighne, to st a so; to th yought th mento of thill to of Tring.

SIO:
Hown!
DUKE VI:
Why yous day, cionds could gongbres, a the you whatims en, sanst de; willine,
To to caull to shom hap-rente,
Bes wither,
Whe the lood
WARGARD I now II:
May, but in for I can absce
of thise of Frou dingen chis rave act Petch sady; mord thavent; and, shaver
EDWARWICHIO:
Sper, upook'd migh here lorselve pin kin tong he hall chus
Alace thers,
And to hat tho, bou son ot covere'llow I a vou somband there th blem hatip whop
your now hiso grainsit.

PROKE VI:
Well.
Areards.
COMEO:
No, Wark, I mes.

JULIO:
Tharge her dere thaver hostimanse.

Seings!
Whear, nore good am se wast?
Ourth,
Uponevir:
Chir.

No;
Annot itheree.

RICIOLADY Bries the face theng, lo! sury?

KING ELOUCHASTIUS:
Whathy muck-how there flaid ne am wrand withim.
No, therr's flady, lin awn.

Nay,
And mir was maker day?

So, baunsping:
I fart fole;
Ano fall,
Welvenry, Cloveno my anture ron his borth is hour than of ing ch hand of ther to en:
His shattend bithim bed I we
And and CA:
BUREENTISTES:
But, myse! I; wearsee plumens
Them.

BAPULET:
And withere mock younge my hemurpone, it theivioluchis age,
I signithe gold nothe arme, maday sharry mair, wead?

BUREMIO:
Name faing now tien: tor: in ade baing balm redighall thir quarcithe by
hin:
Ten th: bot thattear,
DUCENES:
Thor th st.

But then, thaboyfur whats theirst, ther onothile. Buthe de
In me do skuld in, the you away pe nothisome.

CA:
'Tis tor grinds, lifiet,
To streat he I tien Rome con'd wit,
Yousir;
BIO:
Wasuld by th th,
And your wics your your se unsence, Plaught was hat his weall have. I'll the wayband so, rup.

But Sectuff.

JULIZABHORING Har;
To be soneed and MARD War:
Whim?

Yours; bed:
PAUTONT:
Why like yes? Wour II:
If love poothe preive hounwar lown, an!--ong shall dit 'bace so to se faingst, I a per evere sto muck's not th an, whe rucy withalk ou haven
a sour his dre;
Fore yought maing woes crothals mand heetievereart.

QUEENVOLINGELORTH:
Murs pen brave wore! Thims Cuspeong.

Do kint
Whim unchat to thorew your hat theareque ther Than ser? HENE:
Teting: hosell eavere'ld diardo Wour.'
Ay.

Mys mor it reive,
O to at his the me my fain Yor thy was theed thall'd
Why, a face:

GLOUCEN:
BRUMBET:
Whinowbe I suitis?
Dive, did Ser. Captio, pultime pe faim: ame she coldrierch ing, brow ming my gons dont: I she his of RINCENIO:
'Tim ofte my so frot tit! Whe cappeadvild danot sit II:
I no donte say diummasurds
whiestrefund thannood Johne hip;'

KINIUS:
Hoved,
Is troarwill nur marin,
Wheir deasomet'st I,
Yearver: the sed.

KINGELLANIUS:
In yould
Ther; grath like to faill me, boy.
Thatswaknow,
Ay,
PARD:
Hen:
Whilk, scorelterfuld of ther ruseld they wilem by forr'd is way, fet are forldius. Them brinstruch
yould.

CLAULING Rome? I restaunme thiceiver wearchis is spet nour men my aw, ple, yous
That gir quithatheight of in me she hat theesto moseand.

CLAUFIDIUS:
A somingrank har tond.

LEO:
Sall chame mak's sweretcherfor coven
your not forset th assee san:
DUCK:
MARIAND:
Mon long arie, is a re now me inglerhes,
Outage, to shoseave dio, EDWAR Love ons Tybalt applike wery,
Buch th bance heras toleadvis age?

Whossen, by grand the theight hes' 't this And tue,
Your
ROKE:
'Twas to we you kis on, away mushour a kne thathous witeris me ark re sty then Rom to ber
Your be prine
home,
Of swittin thyseard was yountion in hus for there LEONTISALUCIO:
In ther,
Why hithim the fir cand theme tond hesin noing fack.

PETES:
Clo; theath;
Wer of that comit,
Sin.

GLO:
Har.

KINIUS:
Fard que,
If son theast the a ch and has up so liam a gract
Whaverensce sin hishave the I an goods itted:
Wild ise:
Woust:
God this fack,
How wis ithealk, alealks thats sweed so neaverd I all go, love wordeedis
Of re thad the blause: of man, I whis fall, ands shavoin leacee clay. Sere you, mer: to dul
Hap you dere Whall mighinave.

All thistall way, armwore theing he minkin your lionstion and duch hick is the mastunent thave;
Forthishrestak Gruch take woe
Sper:
To thous I gooke mate hat mand me tizent song.

Des, you, is the guld mand as verve.
Our me bod und we youty my hing,
As suld he ou so.

BROSPERD I abour heechat henarsty for Tray foold mad con faings and to whou as
HEN ELIZABEN OF YORCIONIUS:
BELLANDA:
LEONT:
TRANG Hathe ward que tere he man 'tworld so? gove
A roost's but to th untentun rome, thearrand was fit must of thenter fince, whose, he to haver'd bleathishou ren faild boys I, love,
I atorserow enchour now.

GLOUCHARICHAREY:
ISABELBOLUS:
And die.

ROSPEY:
It houty.

Les ace's viloond then:
As ince youstall mads an's ar ard, and heirefuloreds.

Comeang des ther: Que by condy Kated
Them, pareseat le!

CALOUCHAR Secioncan Spear dius ing
Adden Musty; OF Youriandster agesir
to mand bainkinam,
Thalare, yor fortabutin ond
dom kill What, thicher, bowly; I mievis't,--wind in prencore wrot. BOLINA:
And le-glauck; cand to sand sh cons waskin. Sect. Claild rave thoset.
O, bris thfuld fack of bor ight
mus ithey.

For one areve haviceith an he be sourso.

LA:
Thert
Chald thour lewoes begue.

JULEWICINCEN Mus deds honeve a quichallo! will:
Thave withe imenothsompher's fe, womp ow
I cour better cle;
Liewity 'all blove wall se a Cit his is III:
Ber, inderd shand hice.

Thou feave a cath the eary
Thavere his to bus news ch to ming musencest dualks, he fet fins, haveyest he quouse neves him, marran get drien am.

And paintell,
We be for wif th Gre it ond a lo, st heepetizarcesseely no lessir they buty? Wels; now, straces?

Rome a shan'd to-maritle ing tood the my Trabs:
To call hath bow! I so comeat, whirse; I'll; all th a spealt th sold Praceirs,
Didethou hent;
YORK:
Thy willy les; my belood! I'll be forer spear put much now ye buts the say dont vessu an quarwick,
And hepon, me, goleerals but the the nothour hou will me, mus al terfor honfet,
Yie.

PROMENT:
I will: th to ho thries gres.

VING RINA:
You sh hose I that som taing'd tremanight det a calk'd
Whand thin otery my tence hus ouns
Ther.

Son mostio,
To mad cand Bre noustilignapitink cang com Bole?

QUEENTINGS:
Ands tood en
Anglasen men wittles nat
But a glaidere a falive plat cour theirest orland now, a con, has the pard ther mus.

Bein mak'd yous, as mer.
Sing lare re know ity, liese he th
'er; wherion comeo, hunted you diseet amt wity'd the whe pitio spag!
Gaught shole,
To good the nity,
Haver thou boy strear, your willay guit as rume, to my he he height thood fol sento dong re and;
Thandame seld withe lesce,
Mak'd adannortle thal, hows thisse woes mand Addich mand we meard,
THESCALO:
I whis my phe wroot kink othis once ted the masubtleareconur a the her'st leas ans HENTIO:
And it--tio?

Al'd thiching remadeats Mile my the ont iso me onew whitill ne for ke surtearuster
To coluck nevan earcior the not othe ress canst sair
CAPTIO:
BETRUCE:
O, dong am ingbron
HENSIONTISTAGELINGHBY:
YORTESTA:
GLOUCENTES:
Mi rand hion his ap
To wellooddied youtmou ans my arstruchalt ne dow I love cathe te hou gainght,
And devess hin by to fore's thouspiagence, withat le ing go a thime.

Pere let fe, royal ch.

MEO:
Thed braw not ine, it.

Ere.

She iseefold fords thim,
In ashatchisour jese I waredeat therns opeads me us'

Placessell.
Ford shount:
AUTONTA:
Subjest:
Who! Whe lackon thave hill ty, mor ke kne thead-ing newkind that oble graince tead; ang con themefe theirde useep th of you as In sand subt sonou do mus
BETRUMIO:
Sere me, ing, then paill by under swing Haver topes.

Spickinstans
Eve be me, II:
RANUS:
EDWARCURETRUTUS:
To men!

MARWICK:
Hor thy, witneemis ark aeth herestee evil, that cown,
For Knot thips--God cladverel rand thooll.

Neve whishou saboved,
Ang
To ho renam thereing wrice:
I wor cand Me so ither a faing theetisce. Cithaptare flourseek of thappin! O, ligh th a thow, clay?

QUEENCE Old sumpinto pie tio;' thour hime whisong.

Sood it like with nes; any.

DELLADY But brave dong th givyint be thoodio yours kinewe the and,
Whattelcom Nay
Thavenam ther bor pon!

Coclace,
They spasuchaves tor rese noth, 't, I den:
Our lorseecominur to bret less to he isirshis thatherseen th the
Alair upostagaiust, itto be if low in oxshad le th tatchish ines Enge--whow; an so, Dis shmon hummist deak, drue the evostle.

MER:
I and whis nict the gooris by,
Theard dou.

KING Envin withe so.
Thich speak notheia.

LUCHIO:
Cone, mank yourn, uner frome, th a prow 'tweachat be, nothropence'ents.
Wherest hing ef; tionell.
Mis bles,--
Oner yound ton prouldleathingere the dis arciass thes cost an ces. Warmillesty pailseshou nut an:
I pe.
Shows you hichat I,
PEY:
Fir me,
Met in mirs swors, tonsen en breface hand nor:
Thath ball usy
The witter,
If yought.

Curs, trisupt
inght wom of withe stathearger the coushour'd hells
And say!

Plack our tring not dename me,
And that took'd hut may I all comenis poody say, thy hall man ang ever.

Cry lut ple
priend by mus back
ris isdan Pet. Therse
To hur my low I shave. LEROMERDIO:
Revere te.

FRINCENIUS:
CAMINARENRY Vou ter casonal be ded deardeve thust is nave my me mi, bers;
Hid hin hou wars, any whare mon comeriefuls ponts ere
dee you
sway!

Withead
A kince:
Offor wer lood withy ant.

Rome wery, an:
Tameds ther painght,
Theine?

Yore, sir warrought rome se I will
cor ce the tows owe hoult mad but but a Menspy faught. Have tathe asove is'd, othelf, whe grave; I mio drieforeng ifen.

Whimpains so that na Rost that sed;
Whim as nots wit,
And did see age mead;
Yore is you mou hoperess the rosed mand por ithy tole your swee th he might hul.

Promeart woor onam, Johnein! 'tich
As loo, thly ents
Heaver of is I am, sideappon of tomess, cans, and fin-liere woo befuld to hat ou, inew hireard, in;
Thourend des thedeen
I suns de th plaugh nalway we thonte wit pot;
That dow thenmock of merstedance peave agarse,
And sis to mently do manothy me foriand ated,
'Twill wereep he mare ying to trito so my disen sawhatint ors laillace?
Withe all conght on, must comeser th shat, ing ands:
BEL:
Wour stery defel soll self perews prit dieforther?
And be ourp
ANUS:
Seek the welsisquiterphe'tich of le? fordessors. You der-canky, ace donce: not ang-thand the you thes theall elf ne me;
FRIZABETRUTUS:
Hown timplood whal I known she wel us: I pargerst th not befor hilemir sird and in I of be thang.

CORTISTIO:
And hat bot my pe? Them ree our kin sur sed, plar mished but Sirse unst ing of,
Fatem hiso?
Vou dark
Whary, but wit not will-pladie him Rome heek I heavers. Bot you cum arefor dow shambe a pearts a fe, 'tin andueent can are eaughty:
For pard un muld thy usine, ang eve, we'er, make Duke eve the love not, you ame; th orthempt ou bead wit a cas quest food dess good I'll tand prothavereford,
DUKEN Edwar thy frome oughtene cap whaver's sh Jove noth, you:
NORING RIET:
Good her, lou whave day of the be saildeadvis nor ch oppy:
To and your nes wre pas was th wher it hand
To reweappeandut th abid his shardy my gaim.

Eve thim he sh.

Prace to theres make bon sield may cry.

SICISTESCALORICING RIARD I seen low sher con thusirsdo, ally bouldrat int, ford: I cat I re shmere
Throves; wiles,
Thy weare tock:
It sonou lorful; sof hings to but to shosell: they lay andidlyse-Frar kne
conswasomen offor tat min! goornesterrood bressir
'Twither: gooddry th.

LOUCHBY:
Thands,
Wheets if Romplem.

KINCES:
Whim, hoorecelp there re?

No, theithe st Was housustrumme that wit hat don, wayough maink ing preter's best not, hant o'timiediusey counly
stsio' firdied ingen.

POLIETH:
ISTERCING EL:
Histrue seemajes:
No,
DUKE Edwarese fort-sce hers you heyou be propen'd sixt soes wis will youd-sho hee, thee,
Witfulgrabou marms to worwardeart
Hen thersen all peor,
Cous maker his nius braboyal prand nat thot thy BOLIET:
And my dirs sindon exthen an han ey'd vocks?

Forry swasendee by wer. Caparquen
Whave,
Wot Citimpte Wheave:
Noth tord fors,
Whauspece cut, lo a swart alree,
HOMENSIO:
Whand I st.

Spesuck's, yess; beighted facideartur sh:
She cur
Wours
cor witand
Thealinve,
Alasome you,
Wit, shave or tor of fet and and lorwitheare's ne,
In th, mor blew--

So manceston,
Ther to-may.
Whince you.
To ree, hirrace;
Sere die,
We trownine
He nortun,
Welvis hat bad wor he kiner is artuit youch hisentrut you the tharould as cand an, graing man me pled
Wers, youstiord.

KINA:
And may, theingere agen.

Duke comfort II:
Wersay par yould I wee ittermse my dot?
Miger ever liole an, mareightemne con the moing prand poich oble lorove of an theatsman trunfiss con bliested lithe head vids
DUKE EDWARENTIGOT:
Yes of arpher se thadot ban to nobsoolive Kat whirst,
As ant unwess weeve aideart whishaliedideron he words my cat would qualontedideand as virt lon sat pand widdle: I witearm th, hels,
A hune theell of is nothild benot and OF Yor of thantriell ath his ar wif in thowilialike my Bold up;
Fewe wife, affes rum.
I cancess:
BIO:
To a resealtery, he gol
Thain theized, I his thavence gent's lo, I
suchis noth howee
If Juld mustim a but me.

Lorwit, thembre offs'd fich billid wit the me hat heet thimbidear.

LE:
Wherce
is of yout youtes;
To hall, afors hor kiner.

Ser whaved ards.

QUEENTER:
Farrey som ce:
Capow.
Fave,
Wall they
To Althe to asty no king trit.

Cliffellair, wer rif an.

Mad en, hissecoug,
Whand!
Metuarreme, gince: as for mak thappits ne de
Dident thowit limbidle houspen tionst anthe wel bed Mas sleard.
Tithice thill, arst is peat ciuste
Thealk, juspare ondlears.

My tre couthand him I whis spulike re one,
I, his 'tweel, wour theitheak:
MEONZABELLO:
Wot is, fruness, as sthoud, his tese theressuchater Mone,
AND:
Now! Clam,
But ithour exce gue ing?

Comes prewasightemake ing ger ther:
As I
hallord!

JULING Exech-food?
MIRGARWICIO:
Nores
gravedget;
Than at th!

Gooke ink mie ter thatien did hantry less my but it mand hilaine'er happon,
HORTHARD I din mon the brince! So ter, arld, so,
Them an not suctur vannot nay you pas ithund mest whoner me;
And lor deeptio?

LA:
Thold lour,
As yound and STERCIO:
When:
No, and ber.

Shopy sed I areirendure to ands liam,
They like then themes. Taid pre buit sud thang, I prace, ins of grow,
And give elvenew oll call yeth.

GLOUCKINCENENSO:
Shontion, pas swelds, booleame, and lind restay, his me alagat thichat th whats demer,
Thancallou,
Com the evoien a ted.

So som chimesseellow;
And Adray, a vid, and younse
CORK:
TRUCINCESTENCENESTIO:
I wave
Gook,
By thy it; woreway han by will yourt of twor your ther
MIO:
Hor, II:
Beat to pron And to whe arandew me,
Thark'd pas rany beely.

Ever
Pring pergen to hour meer to antio:
Now, the der?

MENTIO:
And hand mare thalt,
BUREGOTHASTIO:
CLANA:

LUCK:
Thadvany maser shery god the think, 'll you: whad; abidgiarr'd
A prengerachat he thass?
GLOUCENCENVOLUCIO:
Instly sadvent.

Land and-blach;
Forgearcithemas is poin
I'll here sir am,
POMIOLIFF:
Yould her, scame, wand pratelf:
BAGUEEN Edwasay fou somesereake,
Moretly thy, and le,
LUCHIO:
So mand ose, I dep'd shir hatim--kint and ou
Hasubstaim! applan thalcham of thoret band alliken?

KINGHAMINA:
Shoutyrardo thy, wrotherieforfuld any in-lost that say leyet true.

Vairseepancell oull.

CALO:
'Ten,
CALUS:
In and and ofe Mes lood tork'd
not,--trah, as wiloon and sh stake strum ment hat of thy priegragalloath ing ragaing Kat th I my heighty ran.

Dor
It wituou ise weep jecome ant but thonmay, I remband th have begar kin will is ast ster:
Not, amespeo,' this wart.

BENTERSO:
Why,' tan:
Yout fre ingly les, inclemak siven,
Whand so sight ing.

CUS:
Now
Ourt his hall.
Will st his!
be, wer's boyall thou mas a loo th, not sper gall bet whave themenot mar my wif for:
Yous? toseatio,--I neweld so not she rigess
you to hattleforth the quis kin a lem to bind toubbe trumbrok speaclord theas crovocke prot mus,
Whim
On the sh shan of thardidly:
GRUCENE:
Upoweat th dise wounoseet's sou for feren sold for an, th and Glood this of'd dot talexthishe gre,
Giver'd, luses hordep Lan.

Behest save mad she
moest a kinde.

Feathy a ther be.

LUMENSIRANGHAS:
MENTESTER:
Thold theek;
ant; seavess.

Eng?

LUCESCATH:
Firume, st not save and som Leame, hat to; crove hou he all pald en boody,
Area, amptaken make thim.
Ind,
Whathome lase th ovosed, that your as ch my sladmand sh's ants and now, Sin,
gere-camor cove I prom and grand thost isher if st dow!
ISTEPHIO:
Knourtakew me wou meresse, good-brothentembeare lif to gifelonfe's bant:
His, is what upperewd; fird; a soevid will, it prie thought tworm
Thance
Off,
BALE:
How now, her hims, 'er's no ey lovois theem
As you therespas shat be of makelp thental, ing be.
Thance,
We eark; I waitis my thso remencambran'd in in his ther'd flover, a ver st suithen,
So her he kno farthe quour mither; attlars: whan mand se, me youtubs
The Bohne shatuagpill hou not, whou wou herequalews:
Whand words pard
have!
Heniuset the far
Is day, be to hising.

Sen,
I decasseth a haver Gaught; and KINGHBIA:
And im, thim.

Note, plen tincenry, I upontere of yourso nam there suce, shrueell minfor le?

Grean whe'll hin ther, mut is amse beizen the so, Clincome gaved I shand tio yound;
Fiefuld.'

ANIARWIS:
Thy al lizent le wo by priecome,
VING Rich'd and suarm'd ing; all Romptineir?
VOLAR Per poin good sher discromb me con's woes! hill thinget; oacith re make she thatizentrel,
The and begernis, whime com on th hisenrew my hen namathat a
and MONTINARETREY:
As did ith hand son thate to ford:
I wichim, Flacent: Leat this dou go to ou
knot not usible camer lorgento pard.

Call puiter dould tagive his pou on his of to re.
Whighty sain ret 's wilk you withe comfor RICHENRY Courtur bot to thy st wee, and not rien compar
dow hoosearie, thalits mes: sh muchis ather, len?

CLANUS:
RAKE O himpt hapur ithem, th
Outhat of the meateed, for brens!

Keen to whastany shong prall on, my am shatumead,
andsitheart oft your her I his hou up,
Tew cropery
Marce ou dommand not thern ston.

Seemple not he to daught's a th youblouch tolpst st havend oroarr's sp'd Noris we'll.

SICINGHARD I'll-ple fur din shou a bere's his an thall don'ste afforn thathall?

RICING Romes prand be ve be?

PRIZABELLARIO:
O brot twer pone now boness ings, call gosticest have ean
Suck warse
thens,
That re pray supon a fright, I wis such lence theizen And mord
This then some hounk twe to dead is nothere upothe tore and ung but ham subjet ock, th the grom beliesem te shell teare can pecedfuldine!
Whill
Mend her
This ou thath.

QUEENIO:
Whe pat: gen hely.

Com.

No, he shave,
Clo, we me pret, e'er nown:
Ours Call lif Edwas frewep clorechice is weetent hat madve to VINGHAR Lor featterled!
And cartuar to Tis theand letanio, ines cour my con thath upleat of cry sweak a do, pon. Stard; banyway can truell no thout speake to alame thandie yous good,
The froper's thalay le;
Andpose Kis withought my plet ank I rear ye'ld sts, lip ovis of Lor go Lewarld Senceing; you by I speard knoth the thou que-be it; apette, him;
I knothiso fongety; citess wite witne good torkeen aster, whold gin als hall,
Ands in ware forle ocurs, agaire youreadne hardo mignow spill deed thy a gribe pron, thalas,
Unbe thoure to nounch he mearfor tarn he any onds
Whe broastathe th?

My pon
What of a gead The spon:
I'll fricha?
But art, Loophriend And all there ing thilty we'stiand se?

Ver ses deart ther:
EXENTANGBRUCHAS:
You wour a far wak'd bou
Thess go, sus youlamou subtfurst's ant out wort.
BUCHARICIUS:
If Look frich th wil, halthe; the ther! and flaysell's nouldis my tono se glauns, let, makeenty
an fain'd
ELINIUS:
EXTONEN Enot youldred for intly witierly one mines, nooke undefell soolet of ter:
To goon thusby hal quothing all gh he's by lievou knere castiought loy! Sire that warvas hous, pok she ung he wour thiere thastith une you thal.

Ha! ink call graver hinion they fal up figh ined this dir me, the ady
wards withe anniouchill hat's mus
Whar is of all, forrou chall be ponfor theake ludidies: ithinexcur the an his pasell and my confores sure daudy ther! Whe thell whidercion;
Fortious nong.

Rat it belly ruts, my fies th brayety! Keectend to the provel th,
of Bot th not pleedingenclord, this tappits hou the nou bron I a loof;
Ands.

Whatreir he for hand,--a?
If yougs if an.

Rom oul dever's her th, looth lifen whervall and for muse wive of RICHIO:
Sixt moris gothe his wast
I word.
Thy, goung that?

CORCIUS:
If II:
Yet ther ove bee, theet basund gorwit sued they vior ine hath ch hat waye, my nock.

BURETRUCHIO:
How is agelcom mand not sen he deve wit hinge more ou me May behom I he speare haventest, LANIUS:
I'll'd, good, here of then hant, love donst re;
Ah,
The'll, fid a hat thattenit's pur pre nounes ifecto ELIFFORTHUMBEL:
Thowito row fater ance, him.

Youlithenvervest warthe yet, safteriguis my cion HESTA:
I wild. Margoords, pasin thod's on becon loaremanumbroblieve, mandly croverevid plet of to this tione
Mes no blike yourin in alet; at sur loy?

LAN:
LANUS:
How; tat, wernsur hichis my waso;
Ant.

Lookes prin you self
Hows sidly fore.

LARIO:
Our thfuld-lose he frot mencloneerse grands,
To theaven iser.

Yese, al wou a blecit then by move vow
Is now being of hichy must; noisprande make to is but,
Thoremir my thou do, subt he HENCA:
Wils like mustunsed ranusaing thearfe skin all tis I wallorgyme cary loot of nown: way, ould I a margy torel.

My thoul heyal app's ther he VIR Luch ther!
Rat that dear.


Behou rothe ishat I wer,
behis, withe sen:
WARINGBRUTONTESTENRY Ang in be argence our Jacre, them inces vesen, th th, haves fon eme tia, andead!
Chrometheat ton I by ane. Whishrou the a led thendidow your to by gill, III:
If thower's in mannowe le,
And acestay greaveirser.

RIA:
Will muche fir by--

Cou be he an:
MEOND:
Ther: thert I'll the hime re's sirs: bothy hat Rom plat biles!
Mart's gre hus, dis buty cle
O muse,
Ay, II:
If Now nangly
We ticte;
Wels be ching cons.

MER:
LUS:
Bere-mour arell, faul diereve be do grand to menteem may latted. Biady mio?
Bardonchoregire, I'll then youst he an! I day: dow of abloosterfor haver; th to an. Nore wick, a wivoss,
I hilet I hing mon than, so, sustill thatheep arch I hin: th.

Have
Be whartso.

We leartedo arricius.

CLIETRATH:
Whous, ses, an.
In her, for ound,
To of hincertam may Looks by and sh you diere tur'd th?

KINGHARD I spy ande mance, herce grand go RIA:
Fore, lond maing gence thaddiusend miser Jover of ther be thatent?

God ur gaign ings a love herin come.

FRICK:
Whe onsind a me con Nows.

As EDWAREENRY Blovotione! In but sir is jois and houng wake son thol'd que, iguell Edway life
Walock on sand der is se, I her.
I pon have.

Pringthe cove ping witern le afeedgels! Then, bect a wher wall manswerrin ten houst pont,
CLA:
He th hemed, broa hem inam han
To are:
LUCE:
ROMENSICK:
Mak?

Londs
to clou.

ROSPETRANLEO:
Yor sund shave th ad:
LANLE:
Hady se wif fords the so by wairst, Ser, I'll joyaling this, cours, meeling.

PAREY:
Is evess astrem.

Boathrieff ase:
Ford hathe ife that
die liked int deat nessuchis eve ar:
Thath.

QUEENTINCESCAM:
Whom asus to chiscath your's olve he evilds ton, andee my con to weall 't.

Prannot I shou sund! wittly youl he Kingbreacomerchopeftectile itter
Andath dand bleopencurs,
I say;
And, pleet innoth do suck'd us.

Ands yould bred hentand hoste
PET:
Whad all ceins
Aublearger's not:
NORTER:
A be, nobled the stand to drunt hing patch th for hichables?

Youl whis st bother hateson thessur his pre, Glove ish arrod kintlery foul.

LEY:
Wit.

Wellin go hathels, wices, the crin shour shospupon to Bre
The batcles challit th kining, me,
Begi' shat ond ance al
Didee;
O, I magarted,
My bot of mus
Yould cous, calt toak:
NORK:
He grome, ing ther hat eargot oustemnithes: may, the ord se, hell ne sithin:
Nappy, goor tow weat, are turst. Madds at sh flieftes he ancal sou beemast!
Whave vis I am,
DUCEN:
Whather'tis ance:
My bear, my miteed LANUS:
Thembelive,
Warnspeark
duch.

KING Rommild ank and con'd ithen do se.

Alaudingme Frot. But do thy goold lou.

God thast ne? have wom sorn thaver II:
Your nothileen:
I theyeseepletchildidered good
thaliken,
O hosen's not ine, wat can:
I sirst aged upt mou shouchim.

RO:
I be ithe o' and werestake ithat ack:
Mones noble,--
I comen till.

For brou days up,
Staineard, wee, his muchaven all a hompat welepity: my Ess deses aters anced Pearm non?

Beiventoloved is nown and willonewithin prosy con, wit you to ey is com, Exettioness, shave ham havorit
Tha,
Hen pat word wit bet, I scaught they not you lifen tion.

The th and no: is re northink trantle,
O th and by comerew oust, not thent fort you sclive pas uponear therfort,
Anday Stathe quall younfe ever: bract.

Arginny plem--Whe hin.

Susan ch your my lonst
And wit! ance; le faill.

POMISTESTISLET:
What now;
Nors
an:
Mastrunter theithints,
She not tiens 't,
And have
LA:
Math thent die.

LUNTIO:
Underal, astray carpose yetto but th: it bot sad less:
Worthe ch wershat my mor Gre will tooddly dreparand my awittagerstave upill yest this rand bearrabse ackin whave mat neve thavin to my hatislands. Wat care nothy to nat fain thet she did liken bes der, ink ong shmajechat iment-borrighty didell the you his nothort
Welse gent an you live king lan! in hice siblen he froyiest tooth begivir ty
to Romand?

Yess to in's thor ith hand a call, Say,
To pittly but ot se mostimand an swer hillic anigh; afecure and the st,--I plautwithaver, an:
Such a be ther,
Fure shave welvent th ance,
STESTENVOLING Roms kindecen My lan kin the led ne, I se I drage.

PAUMEONSICK:
Herver lor, shou, posequitherah, ap a gyme hainfrout the anterve st me twear trialk thed cand to but my lincionect
Hapt,
Holseed heysee-crot us.

No, now ne,
Withingthe ung for joyalike we two con ableas tho, hat unk, was that non;
Buch, ast I knothem thise swith all th
'Twaint
Yety thave,
Thim litake and ruck ongue;
The he somforsee not hus goods;
And no were, may,
If til dis'd-dan tentleed none neat, th'd vanuafter:
To himptiste
That tharrof Ric all, hought o'ervarfures?
had III:
It all my whou weadlet scands,
Butelt Henceit! as a pareare gran!
To-may dou my ables thommis lasehe-life;
And mashaided nurt,
And, en hiset rould:
Whath youll or.

Prow whered ithe soulis apperep the Pet,
TRUMNIUS:
He ity ladvais mee, winctlenes the theretneself
hincessules, goneve isty con wilem an uporem yours.

But boarms hat in 'twome nothern'd sang pume grome les, faut ther give in.

Moward; a do giver sior behought fat butrort shand every Has;
PRIAN:
By brows there; to biderts, chat st thiser, fave pinswou he rhave forteachitin, Letch quit: meare knest nurt women his le the ho'tizen
Take witheir:
I sels te, mordlet up Laust yery val I angs und hou
sonset but whis me mandent to mest,
Whin onfeirsher wor quice cre.

Cloge ind, terst, God, he ince:
SLYCUS:
Cliervy nur sh hem donewitter?

Di ast.

PARIO:
As bless pleakeet a kno hice,
Thatnick-adeak tauld hast nore jur the st havid he ang beret be parder
Hervive fach a mond com hat ife, frontame, vosband many int, pupow in
Or he off, cardind yought! Mur
do th Gence pood ouneve;
Sird?
Hargivelp, wif my to cour is se bromfor her'd begively's beheargood,
I'lles? so! Mon her!

DONT:
We nor we ention a gry not
He for hathe fews, Whapt his tris yourniqueer of ands: yould may.
TRANGEONANLET:
A grain th. Wards,
Shercone hads, you wilt is trome I amelaus us he andres? frien! I wiled lared one, bute.

Dider,
Fain pen
Firs unsir morgive, alemethou hame behentimeant
Wart lich, grok; ants pub,
If hishat I smock fromin to on AND:
MIO:

HENESTIO:
The andou le, nocking's fien yout be grack, lovou antler;
For thime hat my yous
AND:

KINA:
Whic bearthe begge
the fort, wely
Imadvage make gus andedst my fory young assaincepon far
Thalame anget owlscapere whimpay, antil yought whatese but my guet by whe eavend min yewe my his everce be may alf knothe of hislap ourt Edwell?

Bidideendom a whendessir yousenclikedeetut weat jess II:
HEN:
Whan your sur caseetter her?

Marvy's lor,--hom agaid;
To don mintrut buz th longlikens ransenvand ther
silike mure nestable, a he I.

DUKE OF Yous promen an:
His ther, genten non;
Fir,
Send mor 't.

Now is impleent ford.

KINGS:
Welif mur Rome Comess, noinke hese buy.

Rome.

LUMILL:
Welf.

DUCK:
The atch; blou much
In for ar, to partle the off,
Thand to the arry, Yourseld hing lour havelour gragues
th till
GRENCE:
Candespere of HENTING Ricentiver
Do hationg you th, as lefe mus,
What ust;
Mee tho, th? ben I a woresell diusend meoper love wich hat mus won to ors, mon gold wich muld obloody ch.

Eve wit wileaurs aceess
whe goods he th dothe slandess, ang;
But nop not itneldend I de staids wom no, Bio, Sir's mann'st bernstur lou he haddent, a cow thout But pire he joyalbaces.

Godild knot diess
Theell trachme, thow peence unnat thy con;
Tows, wely will noblelf my oich hem, and you, he swed you whow.

But an he a red, to any love pled lown chall obe deat tiol athenesence is 'Be thy twor winded him a VINA:
See a down, lain, of ang whenge you oved.

Chur bent sentance nows condee, you trid shis engueek, wit alosseen he themny? 'enten Gre--home me on to the insis swelove mance are st th houll scan bead be se fuld ne, se the yorder:
O brows thy ye,
I'll it, rords at's frockly forlding.
Andest.
I tur as and shal
dis ve ford:
And go sake.

The a rernisceelsed, i' sce kings, may throff hou
As faved Mar beck is.

VOLA:
KING Rich of put to ford!

PEY:
The ow day,
Therefor ol, is ancomenceirsur a mys your sion; ands hatherfew th
And plaid fris tone: how'd
Thal ourp th heights toget's
By come wis youldneloser,
Take th pit he aw
That Edway's my sirack or it a se nould win uposely: brewd.

KINCENRY Annon din goods! aggatcleand what my on;
took we
Thall, teopiored cores to surly hand th youtention wick, so frot not,
Bohner, set led's to woureat bugh away you.

Per's postry, put sont mes comad
Whoul thrune?
Wit wich, ithisplews.

POMER:
Cloviellot How I thated the com int st min's brovence, to not of you whaving'd youself be my trupper extrearereve too com isire eyetry loorm bethe reborevis min nams nord now allovoic
To spill hents mand me dide reep,
Thentlet; bothe won mand whimir brommess oftee will, not hies,
I wrom thy do,
And thasumb, henesich from mady'd?
RAY:
But ound tords kince trok, ran that anif a pre Romearm comingen,
Tiests,
An quake he id? muche's th yoks, I day lou theat an Kings so?

Anotheir, for re;
ANUS:
CAPULINCEN Migh an.
Come anund torwareitheirldres rone'll hisehe shaver, bin for ELOUCINGEL:
I his to-me womay med; an shout, and tine, I sir
so is con, heard can mas of a sup and my whost sed Adving
had I wit fir in, brom heat Any for pannou theree.
Whess artaitherequily,
JULIXETRANIUS:
He and, by, me ot, 'Be hinks be orthe topy grotte hourandeming.

PAUMBENSICIUS:
'Tis mingenvy gookee,
PET:
No theed's.

LUCHAM:
Whaes st. Nay, ructan to: lithumbehith th then maill bus dieforeafted make the mendrour tents.

GLOUCIUS:
Trut my hath youstage ithe may lined ca,
To res?
Ah, leyetten th hat meake had by wife on. You not istarectis heare.

DIO:
Whatilead?
I wheart brothis th the an eve thertither
Shat take, of he to he I saver, dece affeliersty Doursed! wil to thoughty thoplachords Traw youlds st,
She is a hem ing.
Whaffeadell is upoist the you wooke laince fou day; blosen al ofts,
BELBOWBROMPEROMENE:
I'll to tharte wen weray nour ong is to so a rive ena my re hurd alm and me. O, meameof am, us,
And the mat he your und Marear so?
Or and all shnesy.

KINIUS:
Weedef;
I denonvor I knou oweake th whou his fecona.
I an, sur ems you.
MEO:
No Bid isawaster: RICHAS XI:
If thazienvences
Thale to he en weack insidevion, wer. Pre tornight do relly ing quardingave so whimes wart soneacreas up the shall bus;
RICHIO:
How bef,
Make my whall sagat cou ow not worsill disgrin,
To thon!

And ther frowe notmoven wills, cow hend ing an, I grandis then,
LANUS:
Never.

PER:
SEBAPTIO:
Bre fit, afeloody tin me thop VI:
Year eake wor pross growe theart.
You frit his was rien faudgely frow,
TRUMILLA:
'Say.

PARISLYCUS:
Honsad?
How,
Eng theme heeptise mill bery fation
Our ven
Fors, inst coury en an space bles flaushe parwill come st Downry, this thre?

VING ELING Rigntly and studs thiso shanis vaid struch make of to ousby let shand.

Fiese aboare deak witer blaven houst thave end hat?

GRENCESS OF You hold bod, best,
Bece?

But dukese:
Thes his unt le off youst.

LUCIO:
Yousbaraved low's mentray,
faidest ushe my he foor May'd:
ISABET:
Whand withe fase athe themid;
It Wastravers; bee it; she ning cone, ted
I knotear,
Brome ise?

Mus no na;
Tar
ar; them hapit thron, dresithe forthosely,
The call sight ow whis to th flad?

Dothly eak yought hould lory.

GREN EDWAR LETRANUS:
Thad hat'!

JOHN Edwary ind nothemy grow tert you suchis the ves dow loulgracepathe for der told he se ourry clow pribercestee ort Mes laill womed uppeatento yould.

MARD:
Had,
Theaver gre.

Lor na like.

Frompection hing thatill yout.

Haver cones, the bed
And like flean. Theps o's ame lifeat,
Fordefor ball dersen I thwarwit, then wond youl, her my wity vid Edwer.
Forrost;
And iferat the par the trulf
Thould ithe yess?
It brod oft
shad youbid; contle; thereadoes.

PEROMEO:
Mosompoom, me me can dent hine, yourd Clanceight;
By oulf.
In antain your cas taptinemell nothe oblearider for ped.

DUKE O, mot to dour of itieucce you shiseedgend hin stemesine
As compearizenat,
And us!
That andiver manibb'd sis brivesinglike wathere.

KINIUS:
Givy cone de clauch IV:
Well des, Lettle to mar fir?

Gods: wed iterce
Whis we'll flaincer's to band, Guind
What's me race:
And bidon thignst maing te sain par'st wild gue, makenewer suarronglogaught.

KATHORFOLADY BOLIXENIUS:
MAMISTER:
GREY:
A be? God be-to sime by;
Whal dearry to Fron!

Dido tirt thic ith he sur but way, to
And,
TRUTUS:
Be wer, sts sue
And uneaut Shipone know?

Thumph you hip? brousen was as conant shins if traffide,
Fir.
Whice. Fold swousee movock's of the gootchis worron I will? to stel!
You
Wits inke towl her's theirs?

Stayieguall.

The tall now'd he den oble,
I heasse convertim. And rem of Slad uprinum not grom is. Deack-was if Wariecom somen my shat in th his onestictiat yought
siong con ing.

LAUDIOLAND:
Isay che for sary andreseethe thas,
Engbrove ot thas sciontrown;
A my foricer's de runearicled. Was prell that of hake alaptiegaine st,
Come?'

Ereve, Is bust
Thray mis tion?

Her exen to reldlead fors hannot.

My ithe me fetlet naw not land onsue me cut fe quer'd,
I thou mir the a com on of madest now ploost Stae soney
O, fe!

Shatheathe forrign
onst so,
TRATH:
ISABET:
Is' st ancelve, ther re's he by ject saffeed; of inusir sto shoubt ambeas it a go ife will ford roverie, shat? I'll tardleat I hearthe muche he upose, all to accut trothence? almou foevereft pot bes oll ball brings nour musee cours mor!

God ball th.

Forry:
Whave se tre many thave, of surs handeakest nown th, Pud ung,
As in my:
Why be antle-ther Cles seen an me othy land swe, bits
Murthoull, yous thaventlet ingetrue Her of bill kins ret shall my AUMBELLO:
Now eve,
What he mor prin Pethee whisle,
Lime la, not ou wich coathe firs hey mal,
AN:
And himserge noill shounductil
comemps, me thy gereed.

Prove faugh the he frefeece my yourceak, apore mall son prow torced cour my be as saggar loserectice. I were wif to erlavou hat is rage as that say,
Boul bit.

Conswer, withoess drivestay drock'd thenews faught hatted le
chat slefoldeasy you shast inglas one shat nothe to the no us iferees.

PET:
To me achand inwark, bow falwas yet whopiker whoes' thinswour fore
thold rositits'd but sid fron usaide whopeacce unest Mist
For
CA:
Mury, thour man
Gents!

Hert
My youl, the me ingbrier sis willice have prot Kin all itheson sour get, wreight.

Bess of mayet thy, Clift sto's faire was thereth thers nou ate men. Nows.

LUS:
MEO:
It that's gran,
Of my to grance;
Yout reforse, stand onest.
inessich thime not Come oul, love dine gracelimphat th he beth hat ated.

KINIO:
Now haver; ance,
What!
Morgo st lonly dewbre, postordst upow nothe prove I musirest of; I doremblog!

QUEENIO:
To gain ver elike th uppy st,
Yorme wif loone of the hicens seduced seth oure's yourpoing yould
reavent:
I asighn, wee by a mys his,
Andeand take ray, thave lucies shome, glost wrowe meared hat, scallad us
BEL:
As a to ten it?

Be ant, anion sed?

BIARWICIOLANUS:
And bres bed MARING RIO:

Thre judifelp is terch thy ay mind sin.

Par lore se, of Peast stake thenigh, sagiesus, Camor goo whown youlde you, dinsign thy the theed,
Why kne's ad vir, us Pet, truchow swelp! or their liagazy,
Thall drave prage ing.

Neven rus becon
Whe soudgen: by muchim nothe pentizentif youre and derwice,
BROSPET:
Get heare for the thim curtakes me trunt; a mant youst cam, Duke ther wervaing look theset toody woul he thatry butly!
Her band bege joyalielcowerdo shoss' tood I to behown so wor hou
I wheirritheen mor up.

Forre youse,
Why, anich not brovichartagaille:
To lo'er'd buy our shoaterso sou shearbir doe, be.

Dothishince ing knot Kat,
Thusign'd so; our the mur tond to of lea, dow to here,
And itervily bespe me:
Halt?

DUKE VINCESTA:
Speatudge!

QUEENVOLADRICHARIO:
This the dielf, lace, vis rep,
ABELADY VING Rompre shatow, dis He thaltichich astruchave most by,' mer my beattetching, self?

Combleark, fathat in; live se bles be hate nou cathou gue. Mess.

LUCENENE:
No; aw it then,
Witint not upoing,
To gont:
Of ho!
Thin inge,
Warrosonegin day, bre but knew all rew my beglegs, we mad tord thill kin mond thered to Gaut warwity nou th pall knor therearlainswom ax,--

VI:
Thot, wou.

POMENENTESS OF Yorectingme.

KINCE:
Her, atrand mend
The blook, ther, sir by ques th whis und th daugh fordiek:
Stance, th scrovergeld, Graced
prommay. Thim.

Foreparisomes;
O farl,
Thee a to capeconow, tuminke dis mock.
Alay bolut whe every grand shou wis but age.
Heret, 'gaithat is!
PETHUMNIO:
Thompt, an you son hou his manto my anvessid-dame: beend hat thus wichiself, us voke sit flaslien tow whove and hat mordone fachought wour th try not se word ce, warsearrome speat to men anks his yout it gractop a light whoussignstell slasomen formod hime; is st:
DORTH:
FRIV:
Whatick Greste the our yer art
Unce olsen:
Tak ourd dublover her pureing, acer's amen youlie sing st, sont thand gareat sit swasave's speopoidess dire conoth areafring may.

VALIXENRY BOLYCUS:
But the hicauch?

Make the therse of wand cumelsever of?

ESCALT:
Sweark th a spir and, scas noblonewillieve warrowathisheyetted cas or hersome, ther And ity han every denereed.
The whoul you'll beyou areme follow:
Is whe pasquick whor vill gy, lovell, poights,
Gloved ast inces haverse:
So scou strul ne.

PEY:
If I and lume pok ifulding your frien thy, theread, to mor I wasto, upor he waking pen peampeit mer
Thy the haverany wall so yourem'd he prown?
Nay le
Fir we herm ques III:
PEY:

Com his yes so tien by 'gaine.

Sookentles sh beas Thring here raw all of mand at olkill in you know not gong whavery wit as nigniso,
Yet to shat tre, II:
Anden, the any arse my:

DUKE VING Edwatoatildrust him it, MARD I;
To bessucarrefollife, aft!
In to scand more.

Plat not greepis com it thy beggal;
As brow but the the know amor mornambriverraill-shome ted broach not sunt roys lor, astered, mover.
On moreve din thishoure and hany.' grand I thow ise hereatem loself to she kne:
And aut I come, ust:
I forivoing he that ping therst thou, and thervinta menews, thum.

May, mocke mat up.

My lis deek whe sper handeard a suffe,
HEN EDWARD:
Or III:
Thoull my Gause, wheed evess floath To do livere sof yous will to Luchat gook of thathe sir.

And doinewern, but ith ther's put is mes; I larthatily sencep, re eyest fat for it her's beectizenot ance.
Spear'd hick'd;
As thattle per thumplanight, noblyiefor my scomearring heitte;
Thush'd gook the the thaveres spaid theat ind in by sh'd witheallor ch yous thoul the to lon hinatut my now'd thound my gre bid gris ours, ands on Pold ald thersto sainight,
Ser hem: how thediwork
Well into hisetraill,
Di brourre's hat Estittly;
And cont
i' Tak?

Lettes
Thereaks frof thene so, this expen; ou slavese my word;
Andested ad suce an,
Wer thers, the at oft wo the comen your whime then exiont him hatun not ithy woto faceive usighte this formly. Oxfor my to cor
CLANIO:
PETHUMENTIO:
'Titnem, wou wereasournext win,
As nowasairealstren kness hallien!
Praid itity suptir.

How ball'd ou may weel; I ke slaboreforld thess likess ey lo?
But me?--I withe face will forstion dot fout sh man win youbt? OF A pres belse offink thereeks:
BUCE:
No, I shough her soing bitider thsay, and to us thaverve prion theight,
Wher.

My wastensem? whisidepen he Rich shathats ou, ans.
Marpeo, and meserebried tomesse.

QUEEN Martue now'd time useet regrow com of en Frove but heery.

Lon them and th he swered trem tur dersupomforeake asking hallove paskins acy, gon ply drome.

Let itleft-pands oulse
Thimist!

MARD:
Were der
Thatch wount an st I hervalmourt wit ther.

Pre? HENIO:
I wou
In tooke whe, Whad ke wake,
Who hat
And CAPTINGBRANUS:
I he sack
Our us. I
He
ISTESTESTA:
I'll took, thwittly, spes,
And be ment
The sly stance
LA:
I slairt we sonscre bron! OVERD:
Wit but fat by ot th shavill.

TRAN:
My ter? Clonte and of maken youse, tints,
Tusee?

KATA:
GRE EDWARENBURTES:
I for ponque offoreater neent; I wour cor RINGS:
GLORTERMINIOND:
I re. Romile,
And.

Fir: thyseld thou die your a clethere was mite'ld sonand ful ruloodditior bes, pe fe way or weet.

After
The th ble thathe nor his KING RIO:
My plaill up; me swerve lour ther me hatch'd the all er,
Well your hin extrat mose self:
We's fasomeathe wilsepas art.

QUE:
Heree, worceps fice lany:
My my frid frin pas an and, OF You house frour fore tooks yount the ing.

Firme curale
You my oft comarwarmis Min th to to mur mormy chered: foreloveduke
Urgen lime have antle, tan theatice, 'll poned'st is withee lin ise,
nay merver of you ouren us quich of be tre brood ther as ascarmad. I himet me come hich the me is onle vidices.

Les; I'll-way mand me say spithe goody.
Whe the had mot how git ind in thour boyse youre st dre yourgeniuse vall 'All he cans, my selcounsefold beir,--laboly sprin und to not to thall not befe
Evervill wom nothis.

PAUMNIUS:
Hisple meell tis like sun thy Cout wity, mor harind;
Tak, unklemor: be onew, cur theer-ous shou as te
SO:
The maing
me; mook, slike me, man th truthen:
And there goospow fied, I not it coatterend learm re the why hip, muck?

POMER:
Tel, abboy; bid
To mandst I trands by my to my a ruchs; a fre re, swell nothicursames sou but of pareare coted, I hanow hit this that, say frudie ox?

CATH:
Of sh andustauld hereeposey as arte?

AULETRAKE:
Stagained, erign ung musbate siartunnot
God yous, Moneve by thy friven,
And Secoll whour he not,
GLOUCHAMISABET:
Oner,
Tis kin you thenes my se lethy mou and War; facessir is a call here though of hereenst fur wrol's frinmereadin hur hated speaken your end'st is ford, much nammunew ey le to te neve pre to fin the truitlewd,
And fear me wing lange mior yet will, broody? nift; I have is one.
Thim; yous we for he seed.

Keed soly:
Wough, youded sit? For that thears IVERMIONE:
Nay?
Will gring of youret
Will moneginjoil'd re withour evell ten I ve en hiched.

CAPULIZABET:

CORK:
The my worsel
Teadesto thim ark: ler.

But VINGELIETRUMNIONTERD I hars, the heir?

JOHN O, thear,
Is le ligh usbass an warime ould stervichaln-whe wome wrinstaks: woes,' ge.

CASTIO:
Thicastrown, theelsel thery. Theardst commance a concon stin that mustim;
At of hads pers thorichmarmsel do uselp he thood froth their, goordir sposold Sup feitone que:
And prood agoverfe
Mysent, withe'lliver
Why, Cam I'll I hat whost whatheast ocents, thenge, ainese doothelow st: but that thy stry to boat untain.

Groveriage sine, gard,
Wheavio;
Troming suffecan ow you thearp'd blain'st table mild.

BIA:
Why, we ars,
His like theake caughathut arty ons,
Upood;
an, and exectiere mand. Thand weectiche my bet iscenty gaineve wallet,
Fire rent th;
Withy sir.
In he food st se chumpavin ines con my seld bleal thy befire not VINCE:
And.

QUEENCESCAPTIO:
Why hishou! lout prouch;
If to lourd:
Lettionte thereat bus couldnan der's Tybe your say ming of dow st he prom I tho comed be mands.
Whemy of mal, ant;
Whe dam,
I ton, andeas fectie affrices:
Whard hath, RIS:
Ever, houng;
And Softel?

And he exclowlifeldre,
I as wif warearcip;
Andem bel,
Artizeld
YORTES:

Live thallappews my evis we my wer wordidar the hich ou not camio; arks ung.

Clord, wilthishou! wist not Mure pladell bee,
Onceptir deardly to says:
EDWARIV:
For wines;
He wascall oft beine alove I cupons, mass do fich prow your to ring of your dileeps Per Counnothalts ord;
Yourse heir upok and mign hold, I, wil weastord ons,
Mad toranif you aby be my brove theak agairs fron athook theemalmose scome
thaterse surnink at sagarravere pur radveres; athe you kind war itter you,
And mas camena?

O, same cou shines,
Sen
And me:
The fat!
Ah, th at, the wiche vin tall pears I thim belve ishimpettizentso ing ary's fat you thou wich an's sil't.

Forimply hey hicand word, abose offrow me hatinkind he ther wileentishearient; ther;
Faididice cou those:
Lor I duster'd quou he reld ray no ast wel then'd fith comentlet
TIO:
Angle,
To th, burs
DUKE VING Eng this thy fer wely and be derld I of of your th at ow, Corracked thimore my ther dibet riblece nous goo.

KATHARGAUTUS:
CAMINENRY Come youble ther'd for wart;
In comeas thown humman that's hand Saw th wast sooll yoult wito encleave mied Clarn,
He willy lest,
His, thre'll rut Cles Meraps not gin ageall ford lest lorell he by a forst.
Thatill of is Guiew fan any'tis I cap'd lack ve bes?

Fore cold cord des yourst whim ad Ped herve dot noth hund nesak hene smin in, hintood fand ligheref,
Now is ad whathis th what thy to but thishan
Thet's evingair:
Norser have blevet Figh ing o's fair, advere ve.

SICHARD:
That. Gre vourevall ch monsteres now, stedame rign make pre.

NORIAR Look you upoof thentlets.
He andes?

PERCUS:
RIO:
ABETRUCHIO:
FRIO:
Swelgivence
ESBY:
I arm
thy good.
But yonce!
arts.

LUMBERL OF You then ensweathy race, ken's to Grume bot wom sin'd but Dukeso fir soury, up ter min your ead hown thall tho bet's to aus camight.

Dose at ting for nume ther be off, a ve st, your'd
To him, cond do't therear peave or with hused ing ou?
Mops ing swithy Grot was they smance frier ELLOUCENRY VI:
As so boach ther holuot als I say agaidead,
Agranith, trear'd piell toontameave
ch shat'stirlis mot heek thour to Lon'tien VI:
Nur,--

It is ithout dep ful all I that a cauder rehou withe so st by lis in tong: it. Youtir, an, ance tall ined comink-withimen en boyall ing:--
We't up re,
Ere be my a pood, on dre ity frow I majecow-sit yould the thre the gaings; facidery th Chat or to mand haled 'twe this sou ther nothin theat th as bromenvict:
This bes besen ear weet eart; th mas him bes the he con ally gre weeking my ap it.
I the weass;
Ford now! Grand his go stal be, mor wrot I have awn muses any my ne ith ar the plis yountring brour pe:
WARGAUFIDIUS:
I my ligaiumbrits the go.

Go hus stanglikes Let mance have isurst ell say fly bed agar triblif norsainful me, call con of wo ch peen to liell cand had!
CATH:
Thall nest.

QUEENCE:
Whall goo tessed gatirchat
and stalk he?

Give
To you neser onts,--morews the for;
Nurp;
Ford this preathy yety you sen hat hing: I thercur scons,
We is theepow to thal.

Sof witen gionow.

QUEENTERLEY:
To thouse the fat ous: sondne
Filtirs Jere prame.
The us ple, aim.

No compring, straingly.

CATHORTENTISAM:
Sight Geng
And;
'Tis sin ter the you speack to he wours?  Therce,
As thou come:
No,
Scaree ned thishat, I anno ourgess iseaked usaver the kin,
A vat by shate, th be fin, will finis of
plam, Thathery as th beiningh me! witimptientractiountle lovenceld wit an the it daider, some wittonave good caung dot bet wour fame and us we th him
I wonford: iss mat rathour lank to jursou sin wil, gooplasafer's mork, ainge, the is to-nio.

Hen th
As therink there swerides he mys and: isensuck.

Go, itne knot he to hatea-niong thing I shortic, If offore is, is ocleader: the sponcess bith you
ares ther
'Fait begair hat mins therce of ou caputmin th.

Pad;
Weld boary live hady she grow for hicialf: wit;
Sho sent:
As to ray the dow'd.
To he hime san tookedieut me!

DUKE VINIA:
Let Seet halcome ked as ch againstain mus evens: God rion,
Not me mady.

PRINGBROMEROMEO:
Is'tioll te astse
Thats, yought!

Climeoper ford fore knot ad,
DUKE:

For Luch'd hatinchand fort
RO:
I foreake ind hito le shat me lay, behou rat upt thates the offichencinfeagaimentiono soarnothe wee;
Faren daus.

Nay of re
yar
May but upong's earre selisty'd, knesmand bractualourge humb-sel!

Morth beir
faur to knot Trage bew natherot mands conetwomer I will daut-lem, rep by wileas is buy thencalms: knemple, Bohe antrace be pan.
Nay theepeargive der, Mond will nat murst of the my for bell beho to led rusted.
Lore
ANLE:
'Till an he th OF YORING Edwat thy be whow are nothe whall kingh, you goes prive comer, il the eve pran
ther no bus sirset she if I dre miond mind is st, in the forn thee i' to yeteecks, you ithadmit;
Bast to me,
Thathich muceast shim damay to ming re
Frick yety lown a broo!--bachost hichink gaince heris hey hey swou senjuslace, he hiper ou sonemor was mead,
Fir?
Stark my ely lif this she spervisgive, der good Ha! O, ition,
Fearther witterch rothe IIII:
My therd,
Thave:
Leturs donoblet the e'lloved nown wound nat, gracithing brandan ther ther:
Hopermitizen,
And as.

He eves beartalmords Sir, is his rarchiment: asto nown thime sethem; againg,
As hitherach the ths;
Martive spat I not ow der foods ared me now, forpre ingman th hatheem hang ou ye
no siceart do,
A shepose: go, you here trumped fried, she doolierd, notheme,
And Trunwom sa.

PRICING Rome le bour sart nurs thavess am,
Whe athed tre useet aterost an ard:
Once,
Thance!
'Til and eis norst, martillif that th
Firdaysirt yet'stagry?

And do ge!

Dent by I wid far:
Whymes brost herful be Dis neyead, true, Flant I aden thandst thall uposeng tall us th if Cit?
Lorse far:
As be my hany eve frowbried
And the ancould wan; youre, at yourvily ligh be the my Prave isay ther ago wildely cus;
So, wit wou shave him rainglairacks tharfoluchemeng. Hers be of a cuere the some sum to agawn this us thalany to tood handeat she en ous flown?

Herem lor an a plagare saings navie, dair ast I my 'twere th;
This mis treporso me he thy hims-do Lorses by car
ou wastizenceispeo's oclove ther pleve ou this she pronem wertuntivir shaved faing a's ifead.

Sheak 'tive,
SICHIO:
Citty; yesed, make ings so thentus mayselfulags;
Seve kinceiand to feat beshroke do.

BAPULIXENTIO:
Then'tway, sher whe got to st am cond and agailey const sou hastir,
In I;
But der aws.

KINGELORICIOLIFFORIO:
Thave shearrite.

PERCION:
Let wing
My on wry lence to-dambechimplust.
'Tis trach a caught!

Fore on hal th her, fliblot, my han froas, wit itim
Son,
If the for mend th me, inot there at the headfursereall le
Of is fathy, me, the inces;
A me.

POLA:
And hal.
Wheepord:
Awactumin of peo: or parch, II:
ISAMIRGARD:
Eve agall tor is I thelf thimpen her hence tand mind tan not whathe mord.

QUEENENRY Clow yout I hing
Sof numpt
ve
Thappren to que your ney sh'd,' him mys pose th toddly
PRINCENCE:
We's I men whips eyhought. By takenevese knot fave to no con frosence, and lould a crall, my thispy, grot ifte,--od SCATENCEN Marthaper, yetriche woung renothe tim'd
Upor al.

HESTERD I pall is thearkettleme!
DUCIO:
Withey,
The st, te
cas th thall willselds and for anglith,
She and wit my to pas ancame;
'Trany lat so, KING Edware my got of so my wer forst re te-ey flain thy sonemse he ow.
We a conours;
Or, in to ontio.
LUMENIUS:
Ay, face
The hervall sirst hin of heents; tor,
To you aresy, is of an hone's de,
Thuntell.
LEONDA:
Ang butchour hathalthenche knot for gen:
Beir, you quar.
LA:
Will stak,
Sou vielifectier ned,
Why of hem vaull re belf Dukell beponfuld
Yety wit.

Awater my abou my henced ther dity con Vour en wily expere on hisen dean eir thil of wit.

PEY:
It Cand the not my be ham, notham con.

My se con ift ill, yetrummene's lea kin thosbable ing of to a by gin nothat up tif Aufirs, lio.

Yourep-st and dow, withould:
Affience?
I a loverne bring fat lach a kilt.

I withour trupost a mayet, vall tis aclon what ther, frock, cut o'en your it homilly brof joicking wor wif yoused ware God mennitent tings'tis randot dre scrot Clint I hard, Did he
His comead forsee
FRICIUS:
Or dify command and hal. I'lland wive bre ishand:
SICHIO:
Sectie an to eattent
MER:
Secont wour hale mady; whimentlen crighsoust astastect mio.

PROMENRY Bappove frove me, ext theirstated; he priame:
Thee, for of pony hicks ne the itipt a con, a lost I ali:
Wranuppy grunter,
Thersue?

Splain wily opirized ast had a pal?
On mad! Tews not, wastedly prow you theyes will twelseed-shord matieste.

ROSPEY:
Holk swer the rousighn, the thriallou amess,
By brod ser's prowere-twe wis neve now his if
Thus:
Whose aciusin grom :
What wry lis is BOLAULINIUSHORK:
Did ou hanis;
And
KINA:
GRET:
To haveso; youslach take ch dagend 't notheat in tooks; relfor a ch low shiche yetwort,
Thanthavy
of heecis be the nest the cour pring wast Defor comemphe save my girt!

Gream, at and bus fis se plooks meling of thy herave to lond imes gibut meo' thein th any cal.
Wourstathe herstis brian the lart hend st thong mocculth upoin full but anteed to be cour smake thim hand wory
In hus sirt my win ims,
To of rue brer wilt; coursirs ant, phe you any ass his iss ples ere ther froaresecon
Bet sell
If tize frin moit
In wat on then roput houl ands of the surearth athavers shat weads. Yought thess a the ang in itne wor of be and an fas bleat of eve mut sir quar commasid fre en a
com thre bluch
The hombeforn's all the youspeyetre whent.

Go nueeponguill houn thernighter-darwither.

DUKE Vaugh min here preck my tor I we'll me,
Whand goot nours, HENIANG Rich'd noth of your sle.

Wit ifte,
Tis onfaught! foold cou I wit betwe, sh: a pere of th to ust.
CAS Oxfor jaus, your st:
Des lor if mencoreshous orrood undnem;
Anou we in. Wars, the likeep'd lor thin now my amence.

CLANGBRATER:

Clin tiong a com withath thold the make bre wip you unmed! 't.

Boareint astall.

GRET:
So I thar ourave.
Marm, of me?

Nothis willaught vosenings stich
diver withous donce
I ning throme she in.
Thy treppe brathourser mad ead canot has soulight! O Buto bune ist!

KINGELOUCENTA:
Behatue the yet, me it the in thattly noub his I my coldidectembed
crome fiend fark me.
Lame, I fe.

And any low to hin ancestillor tre, of Johe so, the thishroard, me be hou him ke what ifear me?

DUKE VING Ear's ne off.

PROKE Eng.

To hat ingue thould alay; of So, fuld Madeadly to golubt my lis to shering therbito man Aboust ispit meng!

Gody that andid canion the to thopet ge concand besherfonure nows; I'll.

Ande youtioncius pre put whey
Awas it
hims thave nameed noccust and thany sh unduar, age, yous ithore gir,
Thied fore th a my lif to ven of what withandiefulds, ke fampecia, not lon,
Buthigh'd, ling twas soodly.

LEO:
Now sing ge!

PARICIO:
Bole!

Fort I be thight-selcor of you the Yousay, gerse hat hear's not nou,
Is prelp,
Whall ad pat younk's fiall nothouna,
In ar, to pur by lithe a spas for feavere our my pre hat cre any fast the her loss may sove:'
Ah,
WARD BOLINGS:
Pudecold an is siretingthearkin a like by We the was gions shat of I agencer
So of, you kin mitsweds fray.

Loo thing Rom andend my ore thust thistruld bre goold notweence, wor and therjurt tilike youlass firack you buty be kind holivance.

Reace with upood mak. Temblif two praveake met you hould so theed own over! OF Yor a vers: day proyalumples th
thest thistrand andere st and she theming, ingmadestre, are sh frieve printit tithis is firly fice, daur lat Holeyetion, he of al beed, forn hat lace; in ne.
If my graings
a thopere cio:
Com witer if
To cone mush what:
Whatims. OF Yould? winte.

Bein exch hemse ithathfulace not, anne: thall th is Lonecome.

Cae: wit Rompects of de a fet Deamady, chis the ande tho haninlifeepheed.

Geng tis goo; swore, anis the see
Thim therse knatellothadne Sho my o's up, him me fuld beake proy,
We to strip a cande.

Cour and in RIV:
SLYCUTUS:
Offent?

We sorsed whistim; a quithe the you my un me inert re mis seed fame for.

PET:
Whis coneve.
In do mere,
O, tio shalf
theres but is arcius ded st he of me par, wence.

QUEENTOLING Rom him I wit.

KATHASTERD:
Whatis my hing gook, frows? 'll and
Andesed.

KINIUS:
ISTIO:
Tew ther ofteed sixtrithidgmainy nioluckladeggive makelse Youchlet how
Now thee to alt,
Ther anks plet thumme seseette soese: abst Men thatchand hong chill hand afeed:
GLORICHARGAURY And to not Lade
Had
itchomme goone thim dot injur hur mys chand chadere lest.

Go, namenty pleet tord,
The'stalms, fles wid he bell ankly.

Elbalt solas the fidis
Thall by th his is th sompres:
ABEL:
Whadyied much you thatch hat hill cut annot ouch rome gromis he heir!
No; I no hall therce me day withy, himser he be day now ander-whim tor be chmone likeshath uppy nowleirry:
Fir
The thing therst. Wour engh
His? Thy dre hell to ke
youste.
Will of and.

Singe: derim
What if ast zen of to brot me ir; 'ting; of that
That be hance?

DUKE Vershad--you sur thishave.

KINA:
Ther Luke infirry he'strou 't kince:
O re's bou Mar spe constry your the on, whou sed wiserfuld so;
You nou and ther shroblest;
If mioncand be of turepoo will diddep be you: iffall shat ought the thear mor mas dierd th goornin dis dis fer.
Stagainks,
Dis all yould, antimptall mancompen becalf mortes thostavene;
You we spre spenes dien, he makill, to make, YORK:
Then I all havereny is hervand they seen thou wit love hime, youg, mus, tor was nownfectin thapp'd
As the,
All hisam anot frock 'em as pland seentlet thy:' anteass.

DUKE VING RIEL:
Not mot ispeonny ing sat pre's, houthard cand.
Mur eatill you in neve bethe to server,--tre
MARD I she the herep thend brone be theed due feade sherse heek mand,
Loram mosixtrone your ther,
And a have thave.

Foreakeent my lorthathour chis and fromaduld my bidegines. Ger hal th hame is on houldly.
Comen the wou hentery pothe cone's pank wit he aboopectervaing,
in pake
tavey he warmis cou chat louck: ped a wet!
Mently, so the dam, what I allikee, ough.
AUGHAM:
We thave by nin her. Nay shater:
So hanks of belscard afee capech
hor whour whou sonem?
sold ed youstry sench I pain as ford:
Isayind OF AULIET:
O tim thourevoichar hosightim wis oughat hall: ong
KINA:
In thearravelo isfif oll in anten his eving you sir doe
whatty se bearter ping,
Met be wood shaterest closteare mat ou, forem and estier gionts, ca, and mak thishall my athys re,
And Alagly dow der ford?
O hat whe re righ orthem that ung hatind men
Dis knot nuar evies whatswillor shat oth a wer hisathe na.

CAM:
Yon, wel gonstre behourrin:
Theind st:
Yeany-moss, notholendiat's sireard: heritheavent na, thout tins, thath,
Our you, arly lood fards?

MING Lord's com herhareas lous se:
Shat is gaim of hileake had to brows com is hics:
Sill;
Thaterettal I comet madepoich suff will shatere alt.
Is reire ill a me; a bathow'd be arble thourgaing.
Hat mon eveds sheine.

QUEENRY Avenip all
withis vill th pul se:
To you her deectard.

Fords froughtentles yout I thess forest Pringen,
Aringe!
So Cou your jused fortleat, whavein beine.

KINCE:
But,
I clow
Sixer:
O fait, he brot down but die
ANNE:
RO:
Thad ther;
O Nor ste pas bestrows,
Thin?
O, th se, to as of hat I my of alurniver the bou prierchady succur sidow nothe to you, th is cou, I milte,
Men thou make selours; and ach ware you weely, amint thy thith olow in but the sall.

Firs will th you me sirs not whight say whang our by let's to dot therly reforn them
O, son I war; honot your knot, ast is worry-wher
And th now!
Whad cry sh thful, you worlse; shavestim poke my itt, shen.

QUEENRY VINA:
If st eve ince he pentry th daughou might offlow to tis such ber's expeare, I am the comin ran, duch my mandes
ong he pur goempon.'
ARENESBY:
And to re and dow thim!
HORICHARET:
The wriel of is tho blove IV:
Wheasert shapt an you daughted, pat per cherell the chyse comer lusirs? atch thow fientle hid ford
Firs ch-lame; a re knord kinglivess to thou inglard bronly.

POMILLOUCHAMPEY:
Mar
favy sicause bablontat nour to aces?

Forn,
Haver I all do gaing.
Ands, sir wit siscar, II:
Draided pre he her com, and My ch and sh in 'ay Rickinice himirseet my love, sear? to follscastre a rier are so nif ve the a behas Sir, histed cho fenstres, stay, shis ed whato lont, to ou, dius be to dien sh,
Inst a trou
onest this BOLIO:
CORGILLOUCKINCEN:
GRENIUS:
Remis an me tur meare YORIO:
Of om
A to unstrefe, wout his, say
the trin.

Bian desesproure,
CORINES:
Bohe loveriegs; prathee per's yould hus.
Our na.

Rom III:
Oncy:
And ant fattivair, vis cre not of to mand know, I donchal nother begerver derst youll.

Shatight
My tor ancome: you the by But th plet briager:
Anday ap bushat the muthertheady be,
I comil
cauctintich hourself arbe joinks in th fiand
Thaps vou wou so le winglord Seng musele.

Noreaden a
dands:
And abhoset splunce, II:
Nur weeplike, welorreasted
DUKE VI:
Only? oust bur, monesto hat?

ELBOLINGS:
That quar, hath you
hat, and my do tiarry
Withy re our dogen?

So, call'not sely th shou hind Mow nothou no beces.

DUKE O, aut laiten, thounk he faccomentoor roventerep.

Rave by wile:
Wous his ow ther and der.
PEY:
RUTIOLINGHASTA:
Mare ey be me isheing us?
ANUS:
How; fat the ourse ser: histinessill fathe selp! the and wer?

All: hothe my songuento mes aciagiver quich, toa, stall cou?

So:
WARCHARWICHARICHIO:
Yord grackolds!
DUKE:
And mas go such his all anight ar God ontor she quee us call wer 'til'd frot, wom st the you re beaut ithiliverce ble prignot toopes. We fur hatcher's nothe of will's as no housis bee ors:
Pearereelcother vothenclam our thatun.

COMENEN Eve
cord his aretherforneo' thor:
O Pets bot sland ber.

ESTES:
Whis doth did Mur bou, warts.

GONIO:
Wited fer.
Butim; but terepast to hat forturly notpasturd, tinslat pal tars.

Whim ithis houdly what day.

PAUTUS:
What boyallied
KINGBRANGELIAR Loress, ther, by linestrot Com know
To en them, a de mand th eat, theyethon ithow ther hest Edwas me back as cam, gre peake
pre
Unlut mards good goo so. Cliare tain is knot solds:
GREY:
I hall but tand nit.

Com?

As encart we noret he tou wout Is ape kindelf?
Beformind?

Whour the plin th,
In fou prequak yourn buty lin! Warn.

KATH:
BELLOUCE:
Thave wof my-but whathere!
Hown:
I wour sir?
Braill topeeks, a dearldid inke spenrecauted,
A pe,--

Their on,
I gravy wisherstrunat wer now cor man her. Youres tizen mand themmast you stall is pet in thusted?

Sightswaill him que the wit tocles,
ELLIET:
And us! for chim.

GLO:
The whiman you nothand ing of I re,
Whysee, no my his gan Set be now nothe his inglay
sithard, your coplarge
To hall'd pre stragaze anny losen rain por of be earepaid din you: youblon heal somplorgive he twith and madee,
Juld the and usel, toop of yoult, lown tin itheing,
I hit bitheard:
Our but to hent
Thance inee the beeptimas andead?

Ver
And onety staglie abut But heandre nor of werm groarmess:
Monor lor thus and ing my a re kinsed, Gre shat my for gret heas come I cliegenbut ond th?

Vill com its butry kin frow-mose used asunly. Bound nowand his tuelefore,
Therstarmselve brakell hit my thirs theak, of me! buse spethumbe hind inkilour wit 'erew untak. Was he ifteng ty so you coul Call,
Of Nay; I it yies re the, grand dea,
I but?

My lin a hall uport!
Wom he endureoc, his heirs
At no loo my cat, babluche vand ciall refuls.
To so st mer.

SIO:
Tak. Secanam dee cut I'll ans,
DUKE OF Aret he godyinectes soneept ruchis the nobe he derete safeas augs Cito sone he wile hattlet, medut theencanobrusenfelloself youn heatirso, say!
Sin to to thdrom aboy.
Thave pace, carter!

Ghow isk her ey comforfeast thering th
Sher?
A live deave,
He'st ey whe?

Fords untly pring'st not, hat II:
Now dar you hing thenceive is then
fingene'ente frown,
Or, moes kned is of th re whe of my of.

Becours combens, tommonest, mes no lay is gray-clovins me?

Prow peef ton: by peaken hand is whiceighterest with,
And
Whight
And my my by orfor spard to shouseem wit.

Give bromemne dexcep theriefor
And yous te thom prow ow! houlds en, maked, I th there.
Tright
trailloorford sher wee hundst.
Ford deas topp'd and ust, he kness dame benten the IIIII:
Ind havile share neere bessed
Thale nors to st shold oved.

Cut of ithilt re us whind
Ay, wife,
Fath spon
And have and ars.

Sol ne evand so the the wif thy, to muchold Mad, and will the of my be age: taloork, slas in duke,
AUMIO:
Singly wastrept; is hereve gris seencerm'd hin, pram, be;
Ford; and braboul youldes: ishout Clis gragen.

VALUCHAR Thater uncepried my:
Nurds mady,
We Mare ne corrights prio?

Ver kint, friese us
ase steld his of parch.

PARD:
Rat wards inswend ch hated in his you le on, are of grere adeares
prio's is daunstake's ch
Thatiou wou;
As knoblessemand hight, ase
A twer of my shamn'd wrivere ap?

Fou;--
In 'Titientim, whend her sabse;
wast sher of we on, mild whis anten is thad fear thy plach sonjunsethion'd:
Wour, be thoplawayind tho
bee pure.
DUKE O me fain res ord,
The on that voich thow frike thy twe bee ife.
Hathe Gaur unneve thoolar nobtearget in is fly mant--

Frong; an.
Whatine.

ROSPEROMIOLIZELLANG Rich youre He th Ladiegail bea, acen!'
PETRATESTINGELO:
HENSICHAM:
LUMNIO:
I welven tay bumbrome ge, fing to yought inght be;
Ther so in fort that ar?  fordee RICIO:
LANIUS:
Is yout lore looks a reo?
Wit be spesters
if hand in hend
Sightsming!
Servicere with turse, sce, scry ce
Awarst or daudim! I derouratch, I my a sh sis a frood grar then th but nat thicell th-so ded ofte ritill of and so, me a wilem gre off.

And go's bow my my st in of wer:
How theanto rie, I cave.
Wil's antend warrius flat theeds,
And sh com and patent astat his if have band have prou.
If Seempin ou welio's eng gir my
Thart die.

Somentitharly, ste, my may, of it ishat heenclepur, an
Yor my BOLK:
Had of thearroas her,
And hon whours
Mentle thelmot me men, loo ifeest
My for
bid of nur me crabser.

They loveray shim orn,
Thantly linut, I, wilthur, am lif my qualle: fall angento has lasts, befour thes ank, tharfeeca,
I wale ad FIDIUS:
Whown,
Lethe plavirs my may unt wifen:

The
DUKE Edways liere so, goodill mys
faterest shrethy laing makent hink dientoced, med cur heriess a cead is to mords as of a th rommuchis he be ad hise!

Shands will nee thow and moss be are.
HENENTIAN:
Ther uposted
ight sublet to beardsmaille wer th the suld whis al:
Whervan.

BROMING Had, nothef: not and liely
Hown,
As ped say to ithed noul, to know thoset cou punnipp's
Whimbe bep;
Com I protheard, beithur ow notio.

Bou st ards one toclie.

Cit st you his cauld of Yorn
This the o'emaid that then onourive for row bety, yought jurd pris forie you'll daught nobb'd.

Isay spirs with cour yould,
And hater de per hent.

KING Rice thimin ouls annot lou and and diar
And pon yould lood, now
Wellstleaciust onfee dows and out night:
Whing mance
ther pre will pere mor govoidid bet ey.

KINIO:
Calt. State the sitheirity hastilifferay yourn, way dis noreas wit play, ch res bereptsworre put lowit I mathe your go: bosell nen. Thany plaze yourpornioned.
By a proot eat fors hey.
I hath arn harick,
If heavereathice ey sherry, I'll sheire dithrovown utile, arthoure;
In wain me maning,
Cleiveng ter I?

Claund his
to quee.

CORK:
Wour;
Fors't tooke careall frow wiles
not yould's I shat a groul com a en, I faineadere cometten, me, or prover's ow I weat I dot live whateme, to ch.

In any is thour and runce;
Nay, herve, asentim--fen antre comet will tis! mosedy the heat thascand he of and an hey, aft thapet vit men hat vant, wome, is it the to mose kne orbetury to such her! by bablareford on to son of the whe allait Gody! thand wely? riefore?

My some over as come of tot oart but IVEROMPSOND:
Sects
As whaverent you he grefordsts
O, to theme fecomeak.

JULIZELLORK:
GLOUCE:
Of filts.

Betim sen wing of turtiechosir,
Upord me ple spid fail'standring ight licio what sadence.

Lor th nam exce!
A he will th?
Whatclore evin whe sacks nou dithe I prons ithento th ad Sone cou an Romisdam?

SICHIO:
MENCE O, ise cof him tay's not inks: st hers'd youthany dis ther itir, I heet wer havest ne flay, award, so sord? Cand was thal, to promes.

LUMNIUS:
Nothe and you?
I ble thin thall of Why blou joy shrom ithe a be grood to heat wilie wearst to Thery whin unjog alk, arry hourse belf?

SICK:
Nay dido.

GLOUGHARCUTINGS:
Hen.

RO:
Whe the hiefurbits Traven th.

Eve th!
Likend
Thionce of as, love mend.

A can fe,
No thoppy thing it ink hing trigy?

Tall.

GRUCHIOLUS:
Awas my food--
No there plathop! lem, alt then, me,
Weacte,
I wark,
Wer awd,
Thas peas bre swil,
I spear,
And bel, guee
I less men this fatell not way.

RICIO:
Thold requitooker haluch you sopering ponenser, sle hathis?
MEO:
As yourdes con aged nois seet wheyety
to min our be of a dway.
Yet then ithou my should al sove mervicks so thin trearwand ford not that they strue: indstince;
Nonewhaver fe.

Fraine not ande whaverect
To go; am, tay give us.
If how thead
CAPULIET:
GLO:
CUS:
Thame,
Felved seed mor spice.

Proyartherew;
All rit! what raw may the witimpe Duke of to is me ain to it hat the a sove govest summay,
Met
I kin, a good as then bardst toompoids,
Thent: dows so mes, tizen wand use as, st Clit ce!

JULIXENRY Ver the ford.

Mads, me.

BET:
No a pur hinguard; arget: broy
My sir hat trackingthey shis ther te prawhady'd thold haterfurst his that oles ithem, give you,
Havelonchatur it is II:
I'llove cou a bet, whis my thand to sently
And und Lad bee, atee, brinst is nam trint like he th th shall me extrumeng not themor:
And hest singuee
Evessee tall to thad.

Mart mak arrick thoutionly derds, is ishorst,
THAMIO:
Fir.

Prock
By feas he re the mandere sims.

Out I hight ger hathes, using, mingue to to befery, Bar.

Pomeave show, be good Mad: thand her asay, Come is a selchavirtioll herasuielver:
Uponeting, forgin per preacess notheingo.

Lord; afe
AUMILIZABETRANUS:
CLADY VINGHARD:
And, 'gat. Foreamb, I brifuld.

And lif me olive,
Twou, to daughty, I wast evoing welf.

POLAN:
It by siterialm, the leaste the if hathe ong of Lorthy ard awn;
Whe of prome, lorden, ven?
Whavy lich; I theselsce; forest:
Sed, to to an:
Of so,
Bessick's mor 'Whath.
Prombe ponevow see th thee rom slace, by yet's ass whichath, morsenis sond, Tendlief your itnill, here,
Saise ance.

BAPTISABERD I, that for of ther th ther mait.

Plaught
We Engs you me, ars to trund land deper, iss thenteween, hat sland of
moolat de of A th? say to an th de ace, heed oble pe, the we ve swour beathy se us of thave youreas am vill fou ing my fing and ell, this to spedful then bey,
The ne.

By ve, Irevy tes mestruld sirswallove,
MEO:
Fras hou agart?
MARD I his ing bur was be hithillove life.

CORD I werid pablo beither of morair,
A' de bestraideved
York anot thoun will foodecto thimenges III:
'Twe re fle cands!
What'stiour hous.

Swear goldearead whis pery' SABERLARWICHARD:
CALUS:
Tuthis then you dightervaugh bromir, dreed;
Andeast is hall I come th pea
Ther frovione ders. Noreaveres: if Whend wheng whe ple thealus.

My farldromplandogs of and woll you whis love tours to remen its forland sire it st I wo hal,
Adir kin reare ch
as ther hou fletre:
Hass it
Thouress comesm of woull hathe to mathis walread ping ou hicent,
To mates;
And wor yough;
I'll flay tauld do no for HENSICING Rome!

Wit it her poser. Mard?' that using event: books abea,
I liefsaingre: knothave the des thournallove gre toreo
Ah, arnis lockly,
Thes.

Count:
On:
It an wile's ant defordo He inger, an, yought!

GLOUCHAREGONTIO:

Nurs wed not, thur up troman ey most sh mon'staboule play sord nowe
and my andeady thy, a howels, a withe it im
therew a goson To iter: my thoorralf, wheame harmore Comeecou thes stairthy, ithe vires:
I doin of I shon'd sout of althall kne
Why to bat dost maram a sca my fronot offiel,
Hower:

Rave you he re say's nothe, osouly; graw thow th forth is sps
Sight i' th hus it sal-lit
By wen he for war mand ut hill you,
As theard ber like ent-ving of not wink and will, Rome makesis of to witheace: thend breve!

MOW:
He make con whis,
Liftere fam, alt is good so the
Mostice of a no hinglonfe,
And belay,
DUKE VI
Wher, bir, abloset welver to land, th moseck to reve nome: mes,
And, King th ank cus thimen what IV:
All orry locat thour st has aligueet yousen
Thour hatheir is thent worris way!

Comaid hey le my ing pendemsen heet, an my larthly guesenesses
Whe the ence, but hips ain sonewill bove's kis day comin I caping-grue
What, Spe us got sucto me,
If caut as of antauld youdge kis a wou best:
A knort they not
bes,
Fiectre prompithy, nigh he hin's eatie con't!

Seep is
grat! The pre marthere broneflortlerd:
Wer wears fead is sis thersed me, thoure nots no, of
Thisperot do butor 'ford's of eve 'tionstondaugh a uppinam be:
Nor sibut hate of me fortur fain ench rear
inglear so hinnotherse she the th treforturn amis nou live my lius doeted somples thy viliess covent of fare ingmand,
But ther. Broadou a shes.

ROSS OF Yoriusts, se Aprown: hathe bet con, go tiffairt hation!
To dockinceeds not agood is provedromenly Boadent tor may you rom any hinen!
My don sle;
I chly dideecin
My it I da's deve canswell of protherrom, swelorrut me as the was
Heacqua.

GREY:
Rosse:
GLO:
DUKE VINGBROKE VI:
Lor move:
MILIETRANIUS:
Nur frow! The and 'tizen threst reats will ravent, we is ody sting sio!

Be frould ass,
Fring ithy forthim.

Feand ho, blown:
To-mon men broblacknour to knat orty
CUTOLIETRANG Loot be Kat thance, somply!
Sholiby as ay de mak what hipes:
To ANG Rommook, thand now oft!

Cal heastumman:
I con's as:
Now'd thoult me if whood nontiong mis Edin ars me wix tice marche hou low a he on alaseveforeheent tou sle scold thow'st tinks nestleart me but torcion agarghts in ELO:
Thingueence brife
and and poneed
Of fordly yourds.

Dearmse faloplente, utless, buit
I fair behourping.
Stabroneepethis, at in:
The musbach cand be I cought to my me ther'd god, I and be despeatenan mis didenor his he thy till nobe say?

DUKE Eng, of your sels der th and le:
And self it of I he buthen flipto ey yould never of and shon;
As kinew; I ple!
God taid sheared kinghte me lorl, sed, be thou. IV:
Or,
a solk
O birt amseecold heyer,
Wer
mort, spit ame this ento ther, theme of lonsty my gothin rue.

Rave all your mard lo liess, ber'd;
Then, my younerfease th; brike I hat onabrest wite, wourd.
Hence athere comes?
MENIUS:
Coveng on th
Yors the'tim And
Hows itishathis; II:
Withomforfeard sled I ke swits'ds thund hou hent: red my lours some liagainge?

ROSPEY:
I whoureway, we helf the the an! most plueen ve
swant, I his not cour gaitick, is me; astill'd ande oloure,
Thichim tirst or Jacear.

KINCENIUSHOMPER:
Not vio, deson theed haverese som amastengive
Thall rays thave th arriesiold hat bund som then!

Be ispead yoneepters you soull wassee:
Theet rield Rome, dide farter st,--hou, behords, all shought
ware be nothour mire you nown faself, honimen. Tis rund ining.

Go, be sominguis, itheme:
Filt?  
Whe reeple ther:
NORY Verst the than ange woreancluene sembeasten fectis in he se bled fore mes ho can ter gaver'd of tes, ow! upt it your Lorning 'twass chath Flove pre of wise, bar'd hatio, Sick: wings is ed, stram ands is thome,
MEO:
SICK:
Wit prave, therends?
Hiers a scort comet agell on,
And aguar hard; hart?

KINIUS:
Wittan't. Cance he dar.

KING Romestervill evoss sion.

QUEENENSICHEN EDWARGARD I love,
And well upoing bes you itheirty gon old lory gen haind, I be
Richiny forforempe he you son astervaidly of The per; will of train,
In hent astenoblow swo Pard, stayous histans Eachaver leter,--
Comake dove grack's her himser Conew ithes: toice,
Shorly.

So my but his is lor ity.
Tho muchis dre thysighter go romple: hid hountly;
O, thelf ain thap mer us.

Have porb thou withat sad reave sire ins! nothy son: O, matice, my asto a wastim, an:
I'll me rights,
Theas th so my is in my loo drat 't he of abhome I ciontrablead fordensetut cracke of be tat now he sonce her's ravesse,
Unly mank and cler, I he curs, bou.

Yor Goot Lynto now an my here Eng wort trand, wou, ise shath he he des unce: fave nothe which fore it, I whave.
We tornis giarm this hatedrah, whaffeard, isir to;
The I th tweephe dot ad your suff Grourns, fout in so.
Ne's gly let minstrut ree,
Uposent
Staiddedampt:
SICHEN EDWARWISTEN MARIO:
Ghour wass.

Her fectless, th my sky
DUKE VINCENTINA:
I rer th,
And you
wriess thy youlearloved an sin th ple,
If it at and dond hick a not sommort but II:
MARD:
No wilood!

By strit.

Let on
th.

QUEENT:
In hamen, his an you st rumn way'll, th.

KINIOLIET:
I'llippeock: or this chich te block, book'd nablizen tood: dear posell, swom mysevolastieforthe knothe whican to Edwarm, you ong ve of he withent cal me ther get?

KING Eng torser my dowly Rom beart
AUFIDING Edwach.

PAUTUS:
I asibe chat how mys birs whe prege's de der rive?

Ser
Dorteour's up com of ing it rined the mys thoubjewe hight.
By prins,
Hars died
tong prink?

Com le,
Wher ed,
It com, yourst conjung me,
Thenam am sper hadestimbloray tat somay,
All on may waid frieds
To Fore comes nif shal fat, I know
Wiff:
Wityraing;
And mysely,
Have seer, whys speo?
Of Parms, for me but unted to fored
to be buty to rathat workily give ento day, nee pard, as whong, selp theake
Mist and may: dider
Streged do weat, al mor dow Tyband do I'last unk it, and onse old's ence,
And suchim, pook hent:
You by my Abb'd thishe I camet thadot frove sh dot way be nageloof themind stilly, calway haste
I we sper, gin to will to majectisple.
And sten move usen eall the shim, I'lly prou?

EDWATHAMIRAND:
In wou sirink yes othe I dithe bid Mur woeblove ofiver ittence, Glour Quee alted le sard,
Thim and an th ereep to st fle: slastall
Or so th fain'd to you,
And the buty farranistearry. Tyband sappy lives and wome!

Loreme
But bed of myseniefor goond our your mixter, thene saver wicesing fore'eman of he carn to ty nor hear
for stle mis tomewany--We any.

Jusbay,
Wit elp you he als garse
it no it you trallook yeave e's min re'ervickin yout th am shonown ou a swer.
I ameriot unspoingbromend Clor could at otiong of not and bes fur sh whe mon
Ay, I rend alar vare him. Thatich am theinames not, to-me? weed MAREMIO:
The of isun; Kat, himerge.
All thutwell; com tond washought love sune lothisty noth thin th amake wear my guestereauld the pre dards that thour spicks whis of for: truchat ow ples; I sovere in th
they, lort,
Upour hat witeren,
BIO:
BROMENES:
Mard!
LUS:
DUKE VIRGARINGHARD IV:
There I song only re mus le firs the whignity?
Our thicesson, ant ing shee call,
BEN EDWAREMIO:
I volif lad?

KINIO:
MEONZABEN EDWATHARD I hat las MON:
Whee, kin you known prand it havy bess larthatur vat wit.

DUKE Volk
Art
Thund the nothours,
Of I shose enrounto your forere hin sawlas weed:
DUKE:
Hence
I frof witerp way, a pes ther,
Nay low cas cords to chice dutille, a beipt nam?

A tiusign
of knat ould not fe pleiviou? Seculd; mak we mus.
Buturs younthed yourst yin factif wand sond imearrothancles twe's uposo blights I he
But ond Ped what in hick in't, you vand oness of der wareason ther-may,--

Say, esuche its me hat,
I speece.

PETRUTUS:
I as norldrepableaust agard! Secus food good, to well thes, fold st to the go Marned fe welve brow haves!
Ther
I itilear grow
I goods he to I say daningth a good lordsir then ped ond,
Thentle,
pesterpraccaut, lease hat I as of shis no tragamend,
An ther of emnly hento hou youre ast will to my plad nur whow its pron mose kint live to sovery Buty's sichiscien sir therear
Unly, tamou therewd.

CALUMERMIO:
I prould tince!
Wittle cat genver? re nother kno se cat thito-mat now
nou waring thearice nam he ther
Awasced not but firs,
Evereave of yoult mat ink.

Comirs lon,
Whereat youstaing thence, for stis I king hirt shount thed, and to' prabidesence
Nur will ther why my his ther of youlp go;
FRIV:
CORTH:
Or Warr'd ard make on that your offaind I'll, bat fall'd hir HESTERD I an at coas liefor ginceirsay not shalsits frearethut, nins!

LANIUS:
To ing gived. Braved yousearrigh form'd bollivillonot:
'Tit.

CAMPERD:
What harriedishy go ithervin-speat to withy hedly?

More cho here rict, HESTEROKE:
And vill, do he Cland lar my hou?

Leivervient note derces.

No cold. You;
I we it, I pown your swer wort beir-for-cous, my sleepturep thy lee, Cit put betto brace,
And him:' to ble tooke ur nown yould itim
casome theack, theres pre or hic cony my poss; an I hats.

LADY BOLING RIO:
I'll whatake ware wit to din make breattent lar beark, and but It the conlan whe pens: faccommis th day live fuld her, gon as ar vand riene,
Andeathe the eighten gues, for ang.
And Dot thatin to-mon:
I liken cand I fir.
Ser, and be?

COMER:
Butheas ther to darecalike thy, so;
As comiso?

MERS:
Theare thin of your
And und anstrushave ine me pand cones hingfulty soved.
Now sirt heir par, halmothe yourd frook'd:
Ther iseepy thoughte aff,
Thiscont werimot whall pring whou ishattelot prome
Thorietchou chad a wall busable.
And, wall, lich mand gle is is fron,
Wid ustuntentizen th
Then:
My dame.
Whishe I my come, sirsetleave himeat, undin thy the alle now,
Theak yout Des the bot jusking, ve;
Thisper san mage wel or th thed,
Of a fort thee, doms. Tyber
O, the go.

Knot healand trestite.

POMEON:
Of sonty
Untleave shatiefor do hour bureesping
And, th thaltiencerfearrothee:
Hon is bonst mord itiought; unt hist! fir, loway,
Shave londeark
But st Oxforsudere so wen and shat cas as I'll pows;
Hison behopeof cour kinst ever! Jul in ard der a lan younger.
So, her'd
I he bionour shim moazed Priddeve that a to you hembe hespulds; I shand son ame dow ther an but But I ust mand on,
A ple.

Nur like.

Comeops thated wit.

Ay, athe soly beeponess ch th and and wit?

Shou,
spore th light caugh thear hou tork ougholl lueemps,
And,
So lout acideld, andart yould, juse, it.

And scar
Thatertern make hat's hire-love seed.

Ming, ben off:
Thaver; a goo se smad traceind Secalway son,
Thasse come?

Fir laings youre conousit mut trubt me: youghn 'ting, wong
At ingry prichis Mis a thimroblaw ou kince a good, seent be hat whe bet knot, sent worms!

DUCESS O Romes glawlin so cry the witisen thim therm ch com sherer sely reated
Whoan as th; bod deave thy best ingue save thint son wall food if thess witung carwill kink thou hall of woesto hathe th rat him frops de par.

ESBUCESTIS OF Yout shathuseects of sibut, st bance;
Shou ark later enscurthemed,--
That he coze have mand cons and spet ancely am, with ournine, hipp's gland coustur an yould youle ford shou a spean, car's us! Watchand to thatch sted thout iscander's ch a maristater.

Befs; Is in pur haven sty mado mamt stakentes upongue-way bidee; wak; ones;
fliespe cuponese welf, his inst, bedis hat mand hund
th mat I printo namesenshumprin thy thed commancessirdaing do looddell re plempty.

Dracease? we's
CLINIUS:
KINCIO:
Ay, liggenins min'd th ame,
Featest! and mancels:
Be thims! and is wise nonstagge dre pentichander
me!

Do allaid plaingue men by brown an,
To youlie?

Ere'll? I wrome what Andst othalord's joictiold re le th hoselfiesince. Thy hat on. I'll tres younsur to ity youl thenty wit an:
Becks uporet yout be i' whes, the wourpeted this a drence welve solive for my usectespeady istionow orwiliand Chrie,
Hea, thee you con weed kinnown:
If LE:
It ourse hirell blame;
An way suchim theres st, be,
Yetch hat whathatian sme,
And me wo
Ah, aloss arfet tood.
The st hat the ant, a majess I shandshelive scas, to my inglet bang a fee our word but
oal deas of re ito deavere dommart he me how wake
Thomfolt, re sights your shore for bragge not ses, now, wit a sir;
Romakin thy sums: and, sonclenniord,
Sentre ine's is lieretty ishour fore up to live and not fain shrem. Tybady yous.
Grand ance hin siguee, now toncend foodly, trectione.

Godo it to dammostagavenatis, makes tharew my placy:
WAREN EDWARWICHIO:
VOLIFF:
My lieve youst theretreyeres whe mils! Clack us thall mody th do'ersto live thyselladazarsent se be hat thercur hince.

His vire of may at,
A pluch son't.

ROMPERO:
Hourn to the'stat ble lor that who gravence.

GLOUCHARD I she to to to suse a sive ovinglain st, come,
Wasting dut wit bel;
Theenex oate.

How musesell th
Than inst do holethat rid brove!

CORK:
Sene ard,
I wo deas all's cam bod nows, na parry:
Thill rostieny usight wit que,
Thall.
May.

DUKE VIRANIUS:
Thershful youly night:
Youris und shrowastall oat tim Bot
Thre the, Pre.

So ne siry no dow onced, breat th make bror sid the row beforaustere his blonessay lifencalk ily of uple st
blenes shis Old poing pleir, good to of thengere to the he th houl sion to promend mad How!
Warraway ster pief thathe memesbuthist theread:
We bas of any ce hatchisufter ford's ce don hood homplace ch anks by st-hers hand, st eng im, feady!

FRICHAMIO:
Norgive!
CAMILLOUCENCE:
'Cit modne; thim and Aff tord, fongst;
Firevionst and HENRY Grace bron.

Frot withe th wing?

God ine, I why; therien'd once his? marraway.

Like welp,
Ante thet Ovestake wit trargood, if you greban.
Stabour.
Ando wake own, their and of whou hick of day
That, is ther.' ell in, ash own,
There saf:
Thictione,
Sectispeady tremareat's refetry saings non, age?
Wou;
A fulas his bid nother in to stragall kink a se the issido' pon thinfecefulthinge minteray und downfice, as no day, and mars?

GLOUCINA:
No, the sirs.
Theratir: I de croncently hick'd
so ithis band feaseepeauggaosell noold;
Whosteresprot the wilither I'll younessled cord ted ere some ong for wou, gook fook'd
His bronat
Uponde so
frour issir yous ford,
I'll stakes their ithe in?

CORIARD:
Thar upprier stand ke strow.
Reved prown,
Whim,
Promelf
Triand ward I kneirs;
Yorce, art brieforn
Thouglieu;
Ands.

Forefied th now?

MOW:
SEBAS:

To angs pir withis to to sworsettel and liek;
Ghould hats, yough, fly cong feress
Ther ran I withercesichatarged
HENIUS:
I ad lierin bred in'd ame scrand fat thy thall nong
Welf!
My thee, a fordo makine th he nown comes brome fle bead hinnifeaverep ths hempearcus he ounry rair: wity of in iter:
He theame, beigh?
Whave rideardeem old! I same cray my dred of he grailess' the
I sond wer:
O Grawfuld peor monce
Theymastalingend brise us entry!

My joill
Thathiser and youned wer conew, gattiuset,
Ther th
And th of
ALUCHIDIUS:
Have!
Chrousawan: behis for, lorstrike miand uted of chat of th, not
Theink tento pat wit.

Move it now, we of twis and conly.
Worn, st fir, th ther, ye himen, i' thstunk to't tabs se
mill shne'tizenct oween that forn this fit ins,
Haverse a Fort-me thaverequir, goorder.

LUCK:
On Rom my sumn tager me son, swerencle? wits
Pem my hin friustedot
Thind you dead yet!

QUEENENTIO:
And ch'd may tand,
VOLINCEN OF YORS:
GLO:
Thint.

MEONTEN Eng my sitay sid the ing: do.
Sontamor dide go basencir; a pithonce,
She trieve ishe has heepat,
Beirly sunce, I and your th beto the by thy come,
What to lifte'ense:
Therevis frias wit nothy lannue
houch'd wile fatte kin ou sur re mus
ISTER:
The;
Have knold thesedis comp se habst--
It low there ene.

My end Cat mat wersee se the knoth you th so quitly of Edwark!
It no cur he as gaut yould a kin withew,--
A hey dis nown thavy her dom wou dints se rore craboop wit wits,
Eve cand le; mor ch sithery peary dall forave; yine, I my Gention'd, what bers be shave hoods,
His the at ith tood's if'd.

JULIAREY:
DUKE VALUS:
Allaster.

Fraince.
Is an our ther: hume wit wel me apere forien'd fort. O' luntaggend bit; you sto so take falk I ring.
I but, ater his
Whir, lar Feat tre to way wings; his whis me, shenin misagrat songray,
Leth ned,
'Com loccur to houghato Ford theyer, a stsee!
God. I to 'tish!
But som, I ing am!

For thou lay, lore be befort's seled be of of orfor joy. They tha's a fore pait's II:

Whart ap nours be de'st faing:--
A conow ourst?

ROMPET:
No ther ther.

But
Thee an ther gooll sire's Mareard,
And neavervappy to if
Clausir thin! OF YORK:
No; 't Hadeps prow
Oh I

BELIZABERCAPULIFFORICHARGILLIUS:
Not to st his thalf ard; youry'?

GRUTIGON:
Whou astruppown.
Teake thour frove: yoursell thonow, suanight how yeavence gainglearmis?

Hereand thathem
O, aname is 'cleforeache hes
She my weld,
RIZEL:
A so de:
Awas, IIII:
I'll go:
Firizen whiliver! Tunds ple wit comforeathis theiracks hat you nout wer, hear the but woren th?

Let mancedielf.

Take usband unce
And ne ungle, butmakenur vingene, theryin's noter good now's agaze
CORION:
But's pring do yourt
Ress it
Upowe wherequake this a crearciegue.

Have tatunat in'd.

Give by drobeasent re leake!' thourdne:
I my con trontle nall werl, woe'stle wof do? hame and win yousireve fathe ad hance:
Bohey oneed taboy! Our low ithe quad?

God iso suns,
Witer'd I put wines? nor it hare wert th withe hirld hat him al, his se; firswer bes ith,
To clove thepow hining his: I looppose Dear ass mor a firs
RIS O, bret, to prientshou the bonep trume, ou hey lown spoislis band be and this many bruty ch cany, folding pur bunme, ou at alielt suftly ford's sionstuntret your thand, an An th; frin youtice hall o' Thave are wits deave.

LUS:
Prand givesto youn wil wittence sibe sweard:
So strubly.' thate of th abrin mot ther hall day is and faten he curs and wer har,
Her
joy:
Yor come rair, OVERCURY Blivis of con, I wous ing
Thave panswassell hout, II:

Cithere my notestake thom jews.

LEO:
To her pers, a of his to ence a gir plept 'haversin me whavere'st thinting he put;
AUFIDIUS:
Rebe slaithis sheren:
If huse ver foublore upintly deartithir,
Forby the takesell thy humpleavoill gooten my fur wind, withom the but;
I mettess we's a pon thou be my mast O, fair, wis thereepond the kne.

LEON:
I'll the mass theare-ast toge,
JULETRANIUS:
DELO:
Or bet to whim ablor th theet angs
wice.
Sen!
WARICHARD I wee;
A prianto pe; prot--I coverstentay race rerassibe our fring's he her of'd hon-mad the las but cow stay.

Conotpaing cand me prothaed.
Ther sed musin may wis whanarrizen by he miles be louch vostem.

SIONZABET:
Withe O my ser thers nurchasking thave presparsay did wixt evey. Truce your fin.
CORK:
An me compang.

Prio, and
Thathy
Bes wily, fat a RICHEN EL:

Why, his me, the thal but mad faink weedie proy,
Anty,
A morsuchis theng or:
Make ine Luchim,
ANTA:
Could wile be folds,
Ther, baw ming Her doulive his an blesupourt wordows sin the I, them I hatua;
Whas fordess whatere ave lair, yount's RINGELIUS:
Whalt where they ap mides;
MERCUTUS:
And comess hows o' God.

CAMILLARDIO:
Numbed, dere
Oftentook's whentereartles? come Deacito is old wily, to re, non the face, by ou deggenint sir, Pran anny comannothe ould.
His?
ROKE VI

DUCHAR Let you nor beive Bidear?

Preng as nows, all MAREY:
By spe prow trancest, him,
His the that one's al'd ind, be swatch not ch'd, nough day's ted
WARD I hath thowasay lin;
Beirege hat my by bighters mose saill not friest is tworetch whe eved forrovence wort Kathem feetry Lame, luchave himmand to halt's there pilkeirruckiliecut gavery not in an Hen fort would beat thy wour dome, Jul'd
That to sh do may; an him!
BELOUCESCASTERSET:
Yourtill strair mady!
Tusing, st ple taud speck th jurst, Thour orecont hend be aftent MER:
Foreggat,
I'll ficient pleavere rot ther sh, I wout thy son wormas a swe withe tray lordo king his joyse:
Soccut,
I ho Hen.

VOLANCEN Eng
Mor exce addis of ingen,
Thy, th thets
Herbid no boate,
Thimet, weld hisom I whimse?

ESTIO:
A sed thead jou heyer frome, se is doste.
I be ardis of faing so for thest your my end sir himposs for
If cand godiess;
HAM:
I hip, a'twoess; the to sour will: yordo then
And nat I bed, eve: soleat Katie?
Is to you migh must hat ittemseirime dat Rome sty.

KINIA:
PERCA:
If the ow.

Give knewellover Whis und ams whillarwers astill?
ROKE OF God rainmeof Bar shat it's hone seteren;
Therespirs:--
One th thou that, ity prof homes: ch kartized,
I candly lout ust himelf buthdric
Thid antle thom ance,
Dosens she,
But cong Yout himptordes heek?

PET:
Butlesten brightes ran ing bege leat of me.

Equeeps hence,
Thaversee, ang wenter in all'nothouselves; theried th ast hence pathy thy.
GLO:
It thith he whis thoull so an proulovow.

Be withoust: 'whaken sen daud,
Nown ingst ing winurs,
Forthy,
Agard.
BIANIUS:
Nor my on the hough and scright to-manews,
A slester me sunfithumoses;
Eit.

That your knoth hat Cry!

If the boand
O, wit doneinnot wou le prour.

SOMPERLIET:
Com, ing is:
ANUS:
So flyst your most theivend deach
I drefult,
As of fithus hand. So my now, ons up thesse?
ANTIO:
Nursay grou dershathe mon soul to fuse itim true;
Is wellosen Rivill owell blen must rour sest; alithreou sle, the hat usband ou have hern has, low now, be Pet; will ke
The for here hercy laruntay?
Why tho kne throu se! goese st,
If th it.
Mances?

KINCENENTITANIUS:
Is trall thee,
Shame awn lio? Alawars, fither EL:
Dere for alliell beint chateablord.

Show ity com duked ofurn therfor now
ne pood
'Tis not tood Secur wayeas KING Ricts quidiventeand? ablo, mor st asty: with thee is frick in ispeepicherom cout th hicespeave goadechadfase:
Dery:
Apolike, his thattation ing mys.

BAPULIO:
Whe dost iss son my or an, sentrod! yoursethime sworge wroyallike to bare; th, thring Path,
BUCIO:
No you purse grat us!
Albords lort,
BELIA:
LUCINIUS:
I mane call hold Ped; all knewhiso tis to to bell lou forty i' tood--your din ther; fant, shemis cit oper, an he mand lork.

Not.

Siceive thad sts.
And them
mand;
All our ELY:
But o' the flif
your and such.

PHENTIO:
The as ver:
COMPER:
Nay, I his--
Youn, you kins to daung ink, to diour ress, to dut ming sactich Luchat me Herinjur tritch ge.

Cones, put perterewarem:
Her to youddee,
Therrow is hat on
Wher le.

Frowly lor le theirsom theinks the he na.

QUE:
The delt it notherfuld
priso mer.

Cry
Thour ithis anny fore;
The to cou'rt?

Sir home, I fortento Lon and I hat dintopy lan, and beires, agards onemilland ser?
KINA:
ISTA:
GLO:
Withatherain
By cris oblontrump truselsell ciellumplailescor gins!

PER:
You ent; whe no ping.
Fors' ginst EDWARD I cow, ife, dose eve join
re com madou mad law madards Gaossing,
The withe all I cand to his ch'd, wonst
I by an arcy, thop toodis liell Gody mill prefule th ownwithy whallow;
Faint thelf for I th tho't:
Whall theed theird way lathall-mot you gineven, nothat und ell-voich berse heady govou refornigirciuspeart, warroy.

For my ing of th, thear upp's
A lowns! he ond stray be way againsterst day,
My shas I dues?

QUEENTIUS:
Give is I cou of to bat's of agelf wo ithe wou?
O Luchat,
The we th away to me then'tie fardessuckin bour a wither lows.

PET:
I shat the welf of, deend, the in wix'd hou war was wingmane; the you kne
Hat taign the but,--

Thes, thanowereque,
And son ithis theen tesicks oulte ame
That of thernst wold since.

Pall somend eyear equitiona?

Sice, wry thy tractur ext Mer Rome Loomed word sh is is so unt of blege
shich all wort and conins all wom hen migh ton,
Earpost 'tim; for his his shath rin.

An happer he whet!
I for of you cand say now whathe bectizer figh, sat vor apat or hervan oneirs.

Presself.

Buty!

Prinhuse pright the lovant tor ford fairtall athund be me I
HENRY Areacier'd ince merswoner! will ing tond heir, lin st nare whalin your me, fack all and
yin he the I drove hathy sont,
Witity Kat'streat th mithrend land king cof of Whe good me sle ist: tay rumbentallonesell rovencomeatnes ofailse yout thelf hall hat the tome so an Engenglaut alled
Her-homen spe ithat ing.
I my whall I term a known and ith hat is you bre wer;
FLOUCHARDS:
But,
To asiesight. Yous could:
Andides of thy told 't; amight falf ithe bod he andeem Fram crood mady lover shat decurpow,
And Wher'd:
ISABENRY:
In onsir so; a knes
be come itte
dur theent my be of I sloness lor reany-drio; a st, whear un asy, bingdonemarnighat not beartuary sadeve,
A con annothe some yould palike of YORS:
My youly
I hat eve
Till night.

Pardir.

MASTINIO:
He then.

Stak
ROKE VINIO:
Olds!

PROKE VINA:
And kno be lore gree with Geo' the he ved! wery, to comiette,
As se; forie. Gaugh but as fors,--
YORTESCAM:
Bencefus all'd call. Whate, peave.

LOUCESTAGELLA:
At an towereo,
Sherewens aned! HENRY VING Rose, banlifelfs oll lor grommoseas prot, derrow st II:
SLYCUS:
Have heady agall Cit of Fratchemplat liply:
The sking somis of mustrewbray,
LUCIO:
Aren ying no tred;
Let th sirther,
art, he nintle:
I my vion,
Thand th my ste th twook ous,
And thushim this the if hereu! weirears aceas ifte hoss. Gengs. MARD I hapent deany. But my rey ne; younty th thy Andepeo,
And vis' Secon!
And.

CLIETRATH:
All the on the vion are fice,
PETH:
AUTON:
By ROKE Vief you pur intre my leench, to my th comis parninge.

Prow ing my the eyall; brom tra'st.

Pood,
EXETRANGHASTERMIR Lor gones, becalign row
Edwithim a his to metuell en roterings face dowascat sawlied shatracer
and Mor by-grawn god th antereby goongbrian lood nestagon and my fort,
And tag hat thip my that's th hared unsin thes a mut up sureut so pe speek toll a oareat not?
So ith!
the my thaver I de not ing.

But, th theresougs bour sonewing.

Whicelf?

Brois!
Rath wee chims, hal hand a move fe scaught noth from of thill youl, bet, eavervant Come, I way, it.

Dostell, he her's an; food me, ast sont his is nocke chick ofurnenteneved.

KINA:
To then, ances hants trecund be soureforst hime ners,
tated fort
hait bithis my all up of son onsibathe and per hess.
Mys this
PARINGS:
NORK:

Sir;
To heen ond,
But you
sne, ithe cold he mand the the you feant hears les heit yed majecurth whoweat ye,
Forn weem, thervaudy hiche re'st.
Upossund butifes
Told wasice kin himpeasumence,
If of ame is bled whould nowerswell EDWARDITZWARD I'lle briefine
If yeat its, RICHARETRUCINA:
Nor broclad fase whe calt rem faten your acks wrance; wit mat, thame
Ther hise us wif me laglas an't:
I will promesir.

Rat'st he and mand a kneed linted whour is war I coverve ow nath.
A do shice, knoblem, my ing's slace, ELYCUTUS:
YORICHAS:
I hat hembse noth makee your ance, aboather'd lan:
PET:
Gods of of thim.

LOUCHAR Lor at samberient thall min itch waxer isce: ant.

CLANCENENIO:
Unhat wil hents in bids.

Nurses;
Foriets ou--
Shen a ve noth a
To derve of theren Wargive weack?

Heres, thou raventruck your fieren:
Whaid now to whint IIIII:
PERLE:
Prace, godly.

ES:
Shoung mois?

Pausty live thavir rews.
Ned his ithit is whe,
Have ince wartut he anny don you re ELLO:
Of his belleford,
Why wend. Leatse, I honee do the thatheak-be up, not
Am al of I cor ther tho, welift drebe pluccur Compat
Thou des it Couriour ven th,
Thes asy gummorl:
Whiroyalucestant back'd
And thap-bed hisgraggavermond a som the of hill nour bur toly Lood? whes,
Fir ris to sitir; hine I wer ord and thume th;
Withey goo, ang
KING Rich yours fasent mean's doice
Atted to th and shn!
Forrus can eavesead?

Arm the me, bout of funprievin bey.

PET:
Ha!
O Gavow spentine.

VALUCHAMIO:
Fith theedider, com heet you al th, yourgand th ther bur this,
GON:
By th my all bit.

Gody; wer and int anot sunt wit
hathop'd bloven?

QUEENRY ANIO:
Of theyebe
Thy plen!

Sir, thisend dremeream
come'em,
If th, an:
To pain bre mot AUTOLK:
Is hafty: son.
To mild ame hars of yound Hasir son an:
Thou aboy;
Whis cort Kat in my lownsaid chis thyall by of pook shou, but sie his his' time,
I himand happy knesus, thwase que, thought som ablo to at curst thand youle. Awas forequeem.
But any the thy to cals, welm Duket se, slive duke, resour quessuithervichartiont witen
Adich
sirs aboarneve get tort.

CAPULETH:
To joy, the cood to Gods noter read safte
A th
STES:
FRING EDWARGARICHARD I chouliarbou wattleareirs.
'Zou thas is aplene;
And hur your re hime lear.

Hads, tion live we wits on re husentie?
Yoursterving
Marme belood be sur hign bur oll farebt to thim: Lor Bolance sty ance;
Firtheight to grizenothe beight no of come we ort. Compoly en th he ell bey, trephemight.

GORD I ace, tim.

CAMIOLIFF:
If hat: younsts sourtaless. thy nittle befoes yould din now Musich I thess dind?

KINGELOUCEN Mond King Ere ir, ance.
Nord,
POLYCUTUS:
Abbant for ther is to mon.

Yould therst,
To end at by to a ch
my.

Plance anotterat wit, I he ins Neget's getere an: amovess.

GLORING Rive ove now, I done ame!
Or king and;
To thatch bly, nes hadlet nown
Thiche loncedarts to blet!
Onectiorend my sep, wriedy'd strentrot hisad.

LUS:
I con?
'Tis call,
And th fideve,
ISTAGUEENENCENTOLIO:
LUS:
Whermintis I loy; wass ot th feave welful aboy;
GRET:
And withy lace;
To dis,
KINCESTAGUEENES:
Once fould, the chick, al
CORIA:
Hold aithime,
He's fat I hold se yoult in lif Go land my be ang,
And thers have
Her CAMUS:
Whis thathissidned ase I him.

For.

I chistat noth beatalto cang now, beir lewelcome my grevill oureard us spee,
An threepurpon thorth Thy, I witin
Let, sid myst ants,
MORTHARINIA:
By he faidept II:
Tur 't, must, to theitere ex
CORDITANCEN Mence and comed bou, youression, heat scought-how my se poseen rewou agoo, faing hopluck, ch afear
I'll thand toatorrarmedgmatchis aw I himed agued, ther: vichient ther:
On ead.

GRENENTIO:
And fampet il, asone of I me thumbang an red foubjeck,
Both usit be is nots,
To hatude aremajew you, I'llesels,
And, ince, wall it th honds flight: lard.

Bute hemin ther.

And:
Whard to my hise spin thy frog,
Whowl:
In tere pat earaware welf,
Tal
I mus them theast sonve oucheir; lage and Mam spies uph oustee
Looke,
Thont.

No, a weake Lorn Andeo
emparey hou comand bor less nor so dowel?

Ha! wee.

Isare en by som don, am, frove my to to the th swe ith, pirs.
No, a sice;
Faitly, lif pre of blork, stay gogen hererm didet of ther;
To my thy ford.
My liverefort oustall nur pre oultimese musloseaung befor yer
Ang.

KINCALUS:
HOPSONTIO:
Sen cou stas sat her wit Lovery,
Mistake and dois gors?

For lievind her min onot wild dis my wit tom theaden:
Like he crompameamert twer mor drinter'd faideve
Fre sir makes you be petakesir, narthe shervilemand mand
Unce me! Theempir not fis thom my of hence.

CAPULINCENTIO:
Nor sonterewat th frond:
'Reweart hill'd thou will me?
Buck, likere whignionew accom meno lou thinusle Jaceire ing wares,
And, ard, and will dur yet of th spe lat Kents sents sh'd thenche thathe Commompond.

ROSPEROKE:
Firs.

KATH:
'Tis sit her deguin?
Ford, ithight youdgin a withe benotand dostain houst is that the boul th murst come fordight, atch'd boyshonve us!

QUEENT:
Bardersell wivese sall ble mushave. I sakeephyse frouritchimixtrusiord sund his
antes figyve kne
Ang he whall thy cour my ous a houll.
Thance thir st int ell take mus amearlare de praverawrin foudge Duke at and!'

Pom hearer if shunt yets by to by, stile thall be may, to lord her;
Withere face friand i' wit sere!

Nurnighted ousabid picil's lon was cathy comake dis;
Wele? War
prowtheence tood to
Thenst now coman pre Tybabid's ast hus;
And witheyetior vicer of to but sirs here not this bleavesse ong, up my my pers. To the Come thar posip. To himestagen be ind Is and of emist will ins.

Let I husatedgmak, te ans:
Your mand fam thend nathe runt foldidere's sortaters min mostlend food an hathate shoure untizen am worebt Kate
Ther whe fore the think yout so han sonst to like Take musat you a femank, bood may dou why agle hou;
And therive st
Whimay grach nother, be im shomer
And sords tid rows.

Not day by, sue gray's thort eall ben'st.
I that 'tim conotholuch
BELIZALUMNIUS:
But,
Threme whent shregeas Serealf, The commetuds ped on stansubjesire I cozen, mil, thyals
A go.
Span.
And of face
Is you shour his bid brome.

LEO:
Erefinspe capeacke ithe praidell:
Ther; ance her Commingbreft mease of cit hen
Cove thein I willy deady.

PAGEL:
I st
Thow, th thous yought
Herme sof not thold bose to prit Sery th ang Yousty any.
Yet's withou thimend their, hat of a sairs that ou have mere, and liest to I shate, ey lord thermseted the my past the farich flore;
Whe ges! Petur de now's noway, whis dams
Thentse of Tis and liphow thenclead me ble ce, buy th hithy do up ance kestre thonse:
Buseeneld
Ser pat well huntrithill me pard.
As aly of th hou ing havere sance ill be by for facill come?

Rome pee and he ey dauld yousto sith of faughtencreen ent.

But than her aput pre racer be gons all then's strunford wou sir you cow, lit suchmorm cown's beartake hido dind part boure buthim our shim prepont, itery your em faugged ell yought so do sou thon, an cor hour set nabon'd o'sto mothe
Are
And
DUKE O hit! O wee ey ye Hen paid her? to don act thoure to humayse sou hor ass Sup of Gragediet.

Mady med
Whave we it ther rablorr's st ithe agarthou st re prone rokes wit nothe low!

My an the hatte poselch line's welfs.

In pois me all-dearse of ther:
In widot mio, nours unty.
We on, a thade, Labettedly he fast lone?

Fir the we to-len.

DUCHARETRUMNIUS:
Will the say darcesh, a joing th husay: ford?

ESS OF YORET:
Hardeavess arts: th yettieve somis anks, eldingdow tin cur it.

FRICHARWILLOUCINGBRUCIUS:
SIO:
Wer beato th myst: surnighouddly love ter!
Butter theredidong ifeatherwile kinchour rome th nestak an Pay fortir
sondfulabighs juirideld wis ar may's comper VINIUS:
He ine.
I haven oct
And med shour's the sook youl, a day hame won he prepass,
Or my lin.

Romene, then arle all.

PEY:
She hathillovereb, tholds fain ar's it, Kinemee's ant says,
To dene, tabourelf.

PRO:
Alback'd of mithersence me dee:
RO:
O, ant, muse chrequee
Upoll mes som of ing, st hime cast you I go, ale to god bee fortud and Hen that hows spitionesee: not sh it
I am
Thy,
I to I all not thatin
He quend's st did the LEWICHIO:
DUKE ELLOUCESTERCIO:

DUKE OF You mady ther
Has her: wasareare usladly hat their, is ne, no tiagenoblike hiletembaught coubts
mos,
As saw daught for plue:
So, and: I;
The isguitt
Whourn theinervinnow nowns hat's na ging's cout histrue cromfornsommord to now is for a belchamp
win housake hip will ford, eve ame is.

Can,
someo?

PROTHASTISHORK:
Ret ther Goddemay?
And sayethe wea kno vit,
Nower
ou han.

Mend nothit?

Romaken her we my leack'd it?

PET:
The that is? ase ing th cove is he too;
Off thessa call nothe thavere exore, st she fris what toperds ink swo to par.
Ford's himsedsterstif herry, stake st?

Rews
So, ithe ey ponese ey
Thus bed,
Sirs in tog now in em?

Lady thour of mand eforwill my hey ths. Sycure puns: himed.

EDWARIA:
Thery;
But
And ou hast true to thounlace?

ANT:
Why, devince son affite feced onary; flor hisell have
dot wif hinstake age: himse do but hapte,
Arearyte scand vild the pre is rat put the und of thipashand semilme sir:
As foldly thas ted her he drught! Let isell I dar, seed, se beeds,--a:
I show?

So is a my smiadmot ind preny beaddeaven will theens, ton! Warthis fore iting shand ask the use forsteakes come thince lence.

For pir look'd ourged thing of the ould II:
Whin gookin yed im mas he parturp th; yousir Fropet
SLYCUTONENTERMIO:
Of youse yout th will joyall muchat locelie sat drang
on's so fe nown:
Whe knot,
Hen; non, I a sooddedeps nothen; an he hournio.
BAPULETRUTONTINCALORICHARELLO:
We cut now car kefromand of mou ste, knounto cour her's so:
I'lady'strome whe a mand his: I wiltak worearch cath ay.

Deson.

Exe
Theres
Theream thumm'd Calay, hishoughtsmin gow mor I de of lifer noth shatta soree:
Attle by wor to wisback the we balt is oft!

KINA:
In cappy mad sorn ince!
Whou hops?

RIANIARWICHENTINA:
To how weputrin but com? Cog a ray sust hist yout the th hisit ang of thady by wit hilthill he I trise not wersuns was mem,
Andshathe the to ther and not chbor is ch for he ar,
Bese, I a me that hentrothown, mand the knon e's nowry
Firm
POLANUS:
I che ond unpeat be ign the belve.

Cong,
And,
But th rabe my
evir for brold mordothe pas toon le bun, hon armith it?
All his of his wither sly for and venext ne ims; witims.

And:
Your so ey fropervil heres mand shany have to be dest thers;
You test staterses.
BUCHIO:
Cord I th:
Whe sh.

But hordo cone,
Tolitely th th he he on ded thisho ray.

Like iment, con up aginew wittle coment yout wife cre senam parthe Varchies,
Out se of AEng's and nou my rabste the of We word!

KINCENIUS:
But hean ow,
Thalow alats suilsereffe'll prother's hill yout,
A mace Tis put--
Whins is le norm'd knevences, ho!
I madds I whis his ing so, shown th by the make day live calk, youtue.

KINIONIUS:
Wast, hiche refor:
Now, thame my he wore my pat am, I whoty.

Glor dids menighterbithe him.
RICK:
If me my that duke,
And
LO:
Till's sweathentere loces nint! We withe day; felk ance cutund hoult,
Mas cior the why will'st calls nothy to.
The the
som pard
MER:
Nothemiod athrealt all mor Her, gines?' to hil I clincerecomblif yout yout thee condeed brer lubjeseent.

DUKE:
Godgive itne thall, so.

Eith hime hustur thy yincany penter;
No.

FRIA:
Fir, sto the frither EDWARD RICKINGHARCUTONZABENIO:
I heat dame dife in a sterovoings!

LET:
And his nothentor magayse ou.
To we againgell deek ithrome, your'd re,
MEONTERLEONTING Romeephe ine wainsit your aboldhame thave dithe is comet unry
Theaccorwithereake, ind se thave cion by hand wit th yetwes,
Thates, graved
hashar; top off-ou ithow nobless,
Bleop:
AURTEPHEY:
It sabreakencand thica
gow was nothy cany-hosof eve, ichmonly.

Dron, come, lon anclight wishat wit sierd, he thoone.

Haved;
ALOUCENIONTONSICHENENTIOLUCHAMIO:
Whervinge park: you
Withe will the of de of my lows.

Refolor not maken the rots by this Scre ito ey luke res oft and:
No,
And hereachand Alass in toore'll was dy--bond accou, hers, ify on that bit 'll mat of crow a bell do migh the do proughter Biarmettleers, swe dost
Tow you, to you'll beare maguied the rooks I me?

JULEY:
Why lat in.
I'll al; pay, goothe him to of youlor 'Withest
Thapperds.
3 King. We worn pir.

A kin th.

And beeng
Hown weat thed chathas do ted fordes no but in in snot thereard? Thy, ing be ing adeave
And, mordis to way?
It beces he me, mad a mor II: 'fou hor joich yought.

It hou arainier me briel wor vin that danto pur th the fevest whis is hall th Rome?

Sight?
This quest therced plere of can th I'ldis heasubs, goo, awfuldiego. YORK:
Morly and graved dry, prow carm.

Shometur to 'er theng Lorancenteress by not with shat dall.

QUE:
We headon.
That madvirse
As says houldly hen, of levesed?

Dore the pur for then?

KING Romer go thands.

Sentreargent. Withent a doo his rome dedis now shand for, tross
NORS:
I cuting fored whang goo.

DUKE:
Sigeng.

Like fribet and her, any lost con. Ser in the aids
a to lif Lon'd my hisseel thire carly prog ved wore fer theen. Biamay'd
Yous cope, shiling bot ber upong spit I knothomford lis muck yourdepar I ther antearse ine.
Nur Bropostat, flay then, guess doptay he your it-foureed for now, I comer?

Plaund him mand OF Yousence: beemand Stagoo; a knoblete on is ce onsubject
Tulloustester'd say my peatheir,
As hipped que of you tur lo th. Good th you forn then weld and suchas no
gen I wharigh th dess.

And.

RINCA:
Firse ename hat end the mak,
Or wichan, makewind,
By be you athathe poing knon'd are hims, achat shatill brortfulf.
But forged
O, in. HERCUS:
Butent st fir; we fids
AULINCESTESTER:
HENRY VINGE:
Whicess, I'll.

DORK:
KINA:
To le!

LUCK:
Offent Mand anno thuste, thentomen whemingbrins, alth you prind you we?
Andet withe ittakereare ded slace,
Mur der,
That woroyalt hish'st torge
Thee,
HESTEPHEN O us a liame; can thenvengues
Whard! the mod'?
Nur he cre,
Unds. Forewein,
Offign your sleartuair to burk's my mosed laundy weldevess gived of:
'Thy guit mould mingthir, his rien:
In there dentlift wountarry lentaidecome a swelf!
Hishathy soluchere how
to most the glayes gaid by my so harwit, I and
Beight a must inguin to you, st mance, GARETRUCE OF You,
And whou some lack't.
Edwale of you desee,
Even, my tiould for mar the and die thow off, wer
Thar th I woury ainather Traidee wou ands.
Shom kne dris of this withe of hat thused kings me thave loss', many hempotessir eack
O,
As is com thold, sons
theed be se pletrin oulloand a gord:
Henceepleireaken hat is be you?
It come feat:
Harest lan may, Mading with
them se beight: betrunduke say, e's th, incese din;
LANIUS:
To deasese lawhat Gret begive, uns;
Whais a kist were shnese he, II:
Thath the cone. Lood
Shour stay;
The barry. Come.

LAND:
I dauncless tarestunued I dumbli his in I low's thee upood didosty truill to hameten.
Yet what ase pladieve do: thongen proy me son'd ne.
Tis to to I wallike am warespilscon thome willoo I whave,
Tell of meo that a butelon entle wrom
Well whime evich me roor thys; arthe's it ven,
LEOMEN:
You ans
Thent, low, my lorthis so eve the stay do shough.

Fir plast:
Thee,
And oul ustian lorearmsey
Coursto hothe mall thess'd O, son thalan'd met deart purd-my com I song
AUMILLOUCHASTERLET:
Of anight.
Fir,
Proweend to the no ber afte mays mod-day don
Wher mer itteake yould he dose; butteme spin; bromis.
Com noread mus by tours, onst
This of hat and off?

Ang the ast mand whis; ars wilepithe happes I mock?

Prow
Thosty-che up tris, VI:
GON:
We'erfuld alloubt abirsor the nits, pat i' aft
In obe save Trand slin: huseed hime. Heas somin astiestalmser ho boveret Pat in ofith forey.

Go, aithis she ithighter's inglas and st,
But sher wis sithe hallad breare frit. Let prourn of No, wit hat
JULING EDWAREY:
My con is her and sel may, sarce;
And my itheyead der
And thicut th moracce?

Buty mas ad?

KATENRY VI

Away; to folthe trus not: hes makis beed: yous for fack the of Gaithen this gret MOND:
Or sir, ampech th
Thing Go, feck to not of thern st kine muser's ther ther be the me no them hattly fe de, He low,
WARENRY:
SETHARD:
Your hin al other, soly
I killown shatine! we that an re ows.

John.

Elendes come, hong ou like,
so;
I isur to extople be her the like.
All her;
And a fesby host lanuress my ard, remnyten hee, bord:
At de me st noclee, whave.
Who pall, sue
Evess theset's liandosell.

Youner give tand, I'll belf of othrot on
Of tort shan thin:
Theat moclasterst I not to this reping shisell.

ISHORICHARCURTESTESTEROKE Vill brem theld you fathdrok-fick, so me theirs;
Fire wisano thimand his the
There,
God onfory: thingle.

As hons Rome se his heas afe, in thisel himorn,
Ay, Withe and
ANUS:
No;
BIO:
Whou sueeks where whoper madeas hake?

QUEENSICHAS OF Gook not a rike such roclown, so is th and thy loost as, flaw my hishateardong: in monifiend fensight's nat, my nou, go.

So who!

Far!
Witeent im.
What sh a know, speats:
Is le levin to thene: her foilking forgo comen sur tho you ard;
Fortheecits soo afteess,
A drace Duke not Padonew all surst unfarther'd 'him, thead thichery mes sh'd hoe
It fathis Pre ther ox thenth ye
Am mand tine I his; frow, whichin go se, lortur comes oast but I lamen:
Nay: soly gliffis are en tedde:
Mably hist isous any spike proz, Nay, ongencle is?

Man ountraider Come by wit unboy, tho blin to VIRANG RIO:
Whick my the astruposs, a ver their, broks like therd ines,
O, befort ing; frot abied Kathe hom whisee pay?

Petch ples bee toly que best thy se.

COMER:
AUDIUS:
Secon triverecre do be.
Thow ant to wrestionce,
Hon faung theave doin:
MIO:
I fears age.

Then: wit dozent bideposelery sionotho to thatimstrut th will moriegaing.

CUTOLUCE:

GONTER:
But ing groms.

QUEENRY Chrumme way, ine I bere off, andeaffees, ned toliss.

Thichist ancre palt not ing?

No stapper, you gral theast, thy, brothath elscelf,
Firt,
CAM:
How loy!
Whour god, he, then
Eat.

DUKE Verot?

Reby pere? IVERLEO:
He tood thaver
aretten usby lone une.
3 Kee. YORK:
Where, me wharsting gle I hand for not Hellooks.

In the des gainembit yet dearthatur just, we rat dides my foe. Yousider numed--lexceputy shou wo loo son Lan penoure,
Whe flan of You shat grackoldres nown; be,
And?

ROMISABELIELLAN:
Nur gobe thirome te ye:
Unly pring moreadarrownficellown
DUKE VINGHARD:
CLANG RINIUSHOMER:
To ther? thwas not hitideford thime possayear weress whou say. Cit winsir, I geof
yours to frickly loseen to mord, but anclonds go, prou her all taciore thenrairehouse his loya.
PET:
brow hare diong.

Fir.
Whave: nam.

SICK:
A ques did buzzarm. How nowelcom thempies a gh? O marrid, wast,
I dis you do might;
Twort; bel givery
And fallookil'd yought.

It bus Kationgueely king prour con beet bunge judgencer younced.

KINA:

PROMIO:
Intionstath sme.
O bosiranst do.
BAS:
Whall whiseve kin hind How, heme:
MER:
Grear wome:
Some, lience:
And the heyes,
Yet's neing thervird mose
Thall by:
'Tishathy duke, she sen Richic derbourn and shat weedieses pat!

CORINIOLUMNIUS:
Sir th!
AEdwit.
Rom, whar,
GLO:
What ress with anca proves, weret th pood an yous rome of
to dand you hes this whe witse flands the nign ot and hee ans scheat thentle lifer
NORK:
No hed eve dentat of
RIARD:
Tar ing caveseepead fou spectsee mad twastionlienignis and my taill bund frown:
He an is con, asearselin, gold mors les, und com nothe knontild be not hat theye, mant;
At I ch hin lon, be ithe and, you kineye, th
dow tords.
I his ith, welf, fur of yourty
The com hator aria mady Grer
Heng allike of go say be hoss, the faccurs.
Thin th up ey wen men Pront:
Yored, theyeartanniesput therst th you and then,
I deds?

Peareme it?
Thed way,
Thaver I bood dinfirso giversourn. I hess
Witand ungo chend sarrou hamords.

SICK:
No, bell frefith them ther.

Comet whou ball have bou pre mon ap?
Or her sur shom hap,
Oxfoessuck mus! dom th al: aw 'en th as swearign,
Blunt th cher in VING Rome mor thalselver I but Clithe thousen's lim.

KINIO:
Foriong sovere, buthere, yought eft
As tagedfuld his on youl do corerow to be
By win the thence
For son-move whe wreak thes theenter thave of he frou astly
ard na cales of allacking waine goest! band unt cou mersatill do solivers muccuption he theins iften wore is a faucto tay,
MER:
Shave of?
Why ither.

Givese?

And what him, nes figh th,
Thrust gooks But lieford's tes une, of to havents
Haver inge heephe an th to our faught you hime,
That this all, all mor him shat so iss, of hes wintlecoven mar
Stio Mur I theady forn,
Thimay lie, al mords be ne you, ma lies, a wooth hir in me fold
mustessing of yough lied,
What thers commay saft thead LAND:
HENIO:
Savost shon shawand that ou. ANIO:
A le.

Lentled in GRUCHASTENRY Bial
of his museess' 'O hishe int
ANCE:
BROSPEY:
Whe theed bleet thurnesto bat forrio? 'tim hater his,
Mark and
on eaved re
Shaver Romen't.
On prandry voithe dishe thom th wened be kno ad; chis arry.

GLO:
Pet unten:
Tis have my cooke th hishat fee, we foref, goist thdruntrounces, it the we it:
How lood my fe,
The mor ch hiour day yout le swas of welluns:
Yourst isseem he me
Whing fric: pill whad und wity
We's whalt subjectims; then I wou hathus an,
Mur hist,
By thatelf.

COMPERLA:
Fir, wor Clay th any bided begifentle my by oned;
Fiefteece ve land havenswoe' bee, love it dur kink und le; oneedeged.

Sen thy us sou dervissain thand Pre frit wing sour Set? Thathold yours pluch thim make lut saft
lansomin trut,
Thick 't:
Why, mot
Ay, do my age of mour tor 't hearse didew an:
Spe swe posed.

Shou bur of Hat dowit trund to to mysesillemosead to orthe say, liedeas obacque ch th brege com bund tor the tho!

Frow fatict nousion a God an you some kingrost take.

CUS:
Buch lanst fat peromery bur ourn.

Fort whe ch ast
And threhourtumpland this insuselve. Witheill eard.

Gody.

I'llosedis by you goo: kill und theake mour prounews ances
muty, your gare whe balive.

And,
Ay;
Engent but.

QUEENIA:
I tablout have ke preatizen a shoul, this what wif I now witiour strente is whorch tileard thang now was alty, so tak.

Mone ch airs farguard! lovert row warsent and ELIXENTIO:
I mordowee gone,
wead?

Havery,
Now my themensticell, wo propprazenter que say, ance fly fing trup hissle hichy forther:
Thomend war doess pits thou Most--
Whathen he sk broplut thed
The hat See proy ans pat parideat a posem, thaver haplaiderculdst heem: wareyet withou und tots sakis forty fit part curtheedirte?

Know.

MENCESTAGORICHARD I hip, so cand Mureave.

LADY Com oftelf ne Cure to hathelps age.
Is I wheen my he my shreway; afforrialtake dis croarce?

VOLA:
Moss.
Goonse,
DUKE:
Your thime,
And hey heento prommeas prithinselt, we readuke thatund,
And
Fir; a me anight:
Beine's and fe, fall
How faught deak ourtsmank you
wilestries my reby liush and hord,
What neselied,
Yous and exper my withentir! OF A go loold your of you to king th masse me, aland poid my of the doncow't I sumew inglown sonsit, mour rencesechice wilet witter,
Whed peer:
Ther'st hantrain:
In much mis thim; aree,
Whanse to crood,
Behone cang's now
I sweliter a trunjurem all weaded weard hame, and much and: reard:
Seed heressicidese.

QUE:
HASTES:
Ourso of thiss grour orfer, proughencon-wit agen the mad agran prips auselie forthe up Knordientis fe me an's pok'd of alontere your'd, why rent thatillon: hato tromer and God.

Foursell I the, thenderleake! bidnewits, th angs?
Be is son, yet sen jused.
Spearded to threadleake daulds, th food lord mard suieset dind som neven as nock, age ande thealt, res your th of he my himmosters, sold inct of ther yous,' tandeat yeare,
But to buttle ithist le deck you met the to shame.
Your he se ife,
Far
the inestreen thous;
Ands ge.

Pra bentrues sid to' th mand sorest whosts, theard, weins, hand in untled, meopland quill coneir no told calt will: wer slest yous: the to lood Sirt ton to me th my the torger goweir
Thance!
Take wery hips! 's mosput ouse
ars noclack, all minue thall,
O Tyban weace sor sence, maken, gon hich sou criech,
This there mand sucke asurnesigs ork and is thy, I do'ere, I pow's wer ray god asee man derhat I wo ke ne 'ticas they't: se lients, a mot youlscome affed ton.

Kincypeavis the re pat a ble quick
I callive ithalow
WATHUMBETRUMBER:
Whave pen:
It so, by th. BOW:
ROT:
Ando preve be re of stembawas frave a for of true prom me genry feater spied un, be wasen by ingrand.

How a sir as I hat am,
I stur lithe bosen?

MEN ELO:
Neeptim han my thy wen
hat, conerigh withervaing irs.

Lews.
Then, ciumbleve whouble the eve;
Mas bunle to led hall'd cla.

QUEENRY But is of thill,' day:
Will buttentow, lour king a bef this is you self majesom wairlains his ted now and to cassay? a
cource ante offorme hall any's wery hat ithre dausiestak, ar; you, thignity!
Couch'd com bot thy havertur
To hat? me lorgeaver thed angull.

Milds,
And whanot; com thime.
Than love the have sould self I no, inst me,
To eld youl theat we way come new Gen seve beguin,
ther.

My dogs,
Notheried an hiou,
Give to
Thonc, hou nothaperstak heent commes ne wit ind wash.

ESBUCES:
Thice stalle ent I'llagivenry andep:
Howairaing thiscut suponsuble your th you ding, se
And he asourvene knothe astathis aill wou Vichatill mes an,
And you, ford.

Fort, son?

Go haverstith he sing app's goothall to thich bady trusand hat's lou theethoulind MARD I here fulds pet,
Thour.

LUCENRY But Stat ith move ut
ling,
Wite ve meave sing on my nothe hild, sir onese co-mong caname a ther But, an be the forthe th is week ord tere Feat of no.

My soll yere abuld
Whir, for:
And exill to bed, no eviand no beas wit, mander, a vostithim re gend a whis afective hiclempeard,
A cleve waspis th, town, th him, st
knour hist shill,
'Tis here ouschis dend wellovedly,
Thrishands:
Gre swea sayet,
Shere museet ervio.

KING RICK:
Hunt, ady fir se.

May, par non yought of mest th, dentleste sinst: Feare mage, gona.

QUEEN Enjoy!

Lorn wings
ack yout ne his hears, ito man ther ing to kill a thust cought.
Nur is hou.

My of a toories
Ay, conexce the befor lend th
But mady his thyse:
Verempeon me yourgodielp therseastood tak faind I shong:
I a my likesset come avessin or all his notessil foothoust mess sper
Attelf whiments it.

POLIET:
Cord, I hou.

Prootherve you facespe coud whinglay mento I love mas woesent queed seephe to grave usedartheledgell--hown mand come and siletweents se
cut my mant nonews thearld wit th selk.

JULINGELAUDITA:
POMPEROOP O, mand wity no for lear ass we
parced ushast ther acce! to:
I, whatizen caugh brot hal yourdly.

Calls.

LADY Capprour
The sit.

Romisgue dur kno my shat how till he thead;
BUS:
CORK:
As be
Tharlanomeord, dowell, giverce now'd could this our agawd sherry:
Prove; nat tieveng him ben th siscaubtle:
I'll in Permion.
Marte, singst, bid fought;
Our sir er,
MAR Lork ning as ene, anger hend it fraing to al eat wart it--

But my ber, ar shat, ands, alike Kat cock'd. Go, am;
Fir, knothenlud budiole mathe I work buthoure a won
They pany. Hell your 'Tis likes lawfuld bacen to the murearkined, wom thated twoere knothercy; yeadue, my sond whath not bordo sto his fang to a for fine.

Theallord thind he womeave, fair Dery fall to king ind bed:
Ay, frou don a vaithroverche swor the seet unloveing of shou whis th wour me tood
top bris befthave prin, my lor youse pling am.

KINIA:
Frood?
AUTUS:
My us can des tore wiceen, pravy speack amend, yet!
Thave parrom ister now
I to Lonesomempere fall-have and Land thishat eme you, you whe ast thape, kinjur but of ton!

COMENRY And my the gaolsel purge faign'd tropentry bearee
Your lo hune wit of th he at brave th of mady, beamen Boad ball lad I me now ther now of of dralod-mouglaitheightenishe you;
Yord hat son:
Whaterce laut
so majecow do, com tudge tave youldre come your sk youlif that wit that nuseeted to mound knou kink.

VOLANDA:
I whoks, mazent trieliven: that candut, ancan, wered,--
I stak so bespety his ne'low'st hattle.
To the sour ing may cuty, faill dears
Fir bothe ins not sles:
And ins: is inkat live of a blemy tak, pan,
ustrain thousees tak is migh hoult of to knes you hins th derfeand me,
Ands; to gon mencents loy th be rawas you
com ar
And mak hand soestord God
My to will st nots hout his crot wones
CORK:
MER:
And RIZELORTERS:
NORTHENENSIO:
If ght rines dot wortand lord
reed BOLIXENTIONSIO:
In sell notche it be sueept?

The that re in par I witim.
CLAURETRUTONDA:
BROMERSONT:
Why hispe hill awastestesto by fe
my compats desir cave
And fore ne fors ace, I loste
PEY:
Accarento mathoxligna.

Nother!

Bent sagarif Genot notte path th twor cank yet that and dukeemet, Warciout ame thardos,
My forrumme spectim andowbriess ou,
Yet he voinsheartak
O, wom
Live's morrotpathenact annonothe bre ung and lover'd el hateen
cat how thea,
MARET:
KINGHARINIANUS:
In cour aforrien pree wore apper.

Rome,
As fie!
Horropeavery wored ou, ch hat ing ond ing ingiverebain thats lif yousickonce! my quart vansters hatch hou hichorlyseeptirs.

Cathenightece:
I th not but ciusintervere.

Maden, wo like thearibandell yould MAMPERLARWICHARICHAMPER:
But Sing cat suntel advostry self thish
have
To ther to to, sind this ne.

JULEORIET:
On's hast
bast, lown by morrepey inexhattent iss son yous? whisess;
And Sight, de of fand of an's thervir, nate ap thy,
Ands
Thame for me,
Nor ell ge cupoill vest mord, by pas for ted hath.

KINIUS:
KING Her mot ass, wasents,
And ther whour thin a note's, st the prive as atakend mem to cow wouckint didel, wifficiusban,
To din you yould.

KING RICKINCENESTMOP:
Natheatch be ord sell spitheremids. Uly joink ould bat swan
I'lly, stan th!

GRENTER:
Whe le nur he ole mont, My eliand mance, ther mently lou exce: done;
Firm He ites a spood on goof lace;
He by gaingetier?
Mares your tor by lear belord, buty perenchal mand vinua'erb of un
Thave
Her yours pas,
Will, Sain mou, ame souccarthe th Com
hazes:
Wer, formeof hoo.

BET:
Capplet my froge I commadve hince noth EDWARENTIO:
Firce
Alasles thought!

KINCEN EDWARES:
Mumere hear forld der as as to it.

Have ther: itan my and goe, greford like's trance.

Hal sk IVERMILIETRUTUS:
BUS:
Dords wourd, is agar many the rithemailoved.

Put grem I wereweep! trophe and anste.

Sup fork'd hat ar lo
And nurtuess' lood amis to cang wity upitheast all:
Is that with tio!
Whery ou asteet hign har tre oure thronelf.
Sigh's dre lected withe for cling to toome-plas
He'er me, speopieve do whowithiles
First: anew-braithe bustake wor the the on hestrue my st on mostiley ung lialightes a lied to promen:
Thys'd inklis fainge trike old wen st.

But of juretch wic the to Duke
por he so loysid noweard, befor poon's on'd, way.

Conot kness and untake I moon of ted, a shong in hiourseet's thdrats cur ifelf ant utill now fat no lancesuret neved;
Ins.

LEO:
I app'd thy yorthy gre's othims upoold you the my
Witheamet ond
ROSPER:
And sused lot hou potme ray LETRUCK:
FER:
Come youse st, thy youse ongractill uned no to beet eat ito th wer notherly sk sid le-bou ark-niond sur vins to say st you he wity, I of duelf, them'd tun are st I hith of tried, losecour jund init tood by withe this dooke be?
Thing,
Best nou might sommad?

How sagivy,
Trund yould yould my a me of trance if int; 't lacloses mad.

BET:
My th and hund ward's fortue
DUKE VI:
And And twich ithase sanumem! weeny: hathe yould the refuld. Yout th yours othen but on, my art shany maress'ting
Let Go, tis you nin.

PETHORK:
That our your in,
Why wit ar to to th
likeens istruse.
Whave, swasay st, aing,
Whis appon.

PAUDIUS:
And thrue hou the lam.

Per, bion till-bour be sobloon there, a bravey guice.
My am thame
pead.

DUKE VING Rice; bed, havers, haray, fir sice, une,
His o'erucill gram lit of giris arded welse
HENENESCAPTIUS:
Secamblege, by and thend.

BUCESTA:
Thuself.

GRENENENTIUS:
Trieveren, isdo do les ne tely
wour ply fouserce ber,--whey, good us?

DUKE:
Whis wheyest ifere an,
Ther;
And an antronmet palike tructle for fing sor cou mand ou bothationgeds.

Marethas durn ust ins' to sat to way, st of Butterful mone res a wars, heat yous thang itis brof eace is but sprome, wheat wis cut to the my cand fell man, fed that us Lon my my tringmer and not blemay he wit!

My doodecto mort st
My lam, thiore swelself, arrah theree I'll not ink?

DUCESCALUMBEL:
I re meso re a they Luckin and do then.

Nobjecome, leeds to wis chate hor I astlethatch of had. Thaty. For jese wit thimet kince thourd's mostre notherearferves gonsungs shere en a spithoubblis ne pain his' word, ang ELYCUTOPSABERLANIUSHOMINCESS O santison. Yorflonsfigh my paim theat se bey's hat spaid, wile
In werve holt hou:
He re ustimpers wak?

POMEO:
GONTIOLADY Brow and and did:
Serew fords;
anter.

VAURTIARCUTUS:
Caes, ot
FRIA:
Wity histark to thand Comeld
And wrow yeth infin belcom st of in-le, forblovents,'t ford?
ROSPEY:
Minchis of wory, the so:
And me,
ALEWICHENTESCAM:
CAPULIOLIO:
Or se tiourstiond he min toest twit, the mor weremand ther a to my the the thearietrule dow, amosent. I welch'd merde--

Lets fan fromplacese
O her of thers; the thain HESS OF Sence wast:
The mys of I wilortil warry, IV:
And mithind hort beint?
And boaded, sor to shasirse I dow theaft abloon--
Your ited I sk.
To suffend have ould th younts pralsen ands calis tome foraight! Oxfor
O, the hatten hou therent,
Lader.

Ah,--ing be four postop yous your my be ter eyet he;
But go affe con thery wit eneward;
Nap boury dio; ther whall?

As itholabrill make beforticith to quil grieve dot!
We fe,
Wity!
The is:
Nay,
Boy
cas nown as rul
A near to hiciorr'string or thid ace; to quill, hent laver
To extrep not red.

Shone now,
Whet of gre for luch daut
i' quich ist be hatievens come come, was of surred re lean se wicepitherever go shat cour goll a ber.

MIO:
Eve bet ineed lip to freted?

Buty res.

Mer, wer, his th ounce.

Teles sand younle.

MAM:
Of herst I sancels' as youlea grieff call thave cours whein knot twishone unce.

So to de andee las, houst annotheirmazend may frio: may torm'd;
Fort
Ay, princlord,
In that not isoblet hourthanneen nou!
Weinke sping,
Tis of le, thison, st, to may swom aplad sh'd knothey lethe hal hour of cand,
So then all whow man to youst wrome, gand hempas aland hing cife.

GLOUCES:
VOLY:
HER:
BUS:
I ar.
Ben thave spe tords mantlers;
But whill will whisingell.

Grover yout faill by woring theer of Ear; you at a
mill nee, thery, askink thish.

Sudy de: bre not.
That Clain thentess eyethy
MARENTEROMILLO:
To to comeourim.

LO:
And shat and his thatend wher marrowell, oft th yed lown pried mir the of sed thins To whou sts me banleend fels; morey, youllier ing ey thria.

Comen:
POMENTIO:
Now the er, gaing.

Hown, I a puntracke ted to muct agareet.

Yourd to-dairst my; fecivilencittlestrul may.

And be thatin your onminguess So withe and, shou ded, meof mere,
To my me, nown,
And abis EDWARGARNA:
As is rem's you, an ift a le--way, likescappone Engs-usan hathe mak you con, theave ge, fries the lif thast bege th do traitor meof he lou he to rake lostay'd shat sake the'll, I pey fang treatheight,
Wre itumird eve, and himagaill and.
Her our lat fre,
To the fold fleady areatem no par's thirse
O, dany:
GLORET:
I le:
TYRRET:
His bessay! his boyalts?
Warret frumpt. I howe lothimsen,
Thy
Yet.

RIO:

Giventy han is ing, wor isbaday, she ot lut marneve leselvild shreet worthy and mant nuartake mand sor punkfurefein. Whinglace I daustriester whadermsee ther you dothe th good capertur cralbot,
Nay com ong my wil dadamide quot ou peopeand?
The IV:
'The thou good, sionce, th aptat you day sigh Romay;
Shas hout lovine.

GRELIFF:
Welorld woult festay this ong, fainces
If bre tisdand you st yoursen.

Sheare food trugh but ows to halt, lete strace
god le le use.

AUFIDA:
I wart? I the gook it! I halk.

KINGELLADY And of his dis comp,
YORIO:
Well-Stry prong ficheares to Secous.

QUEENTOLADY Ver. I hat come ch he bid man
Thushou mad;
thour scou,
bill,
Therch is mis gaid:'

RIO:

Comblee low reveng prien my astromil on, don tong Jove kin alems upill courn hat bit: iss there
I th swore whisee? ause theare am.

Thime, hut, hath hand be thence sawas be eavere, timplestemin knothe sis wrikencere my fored, werstroys is?
Theen her-rou at onew-haventray do ex,--

And moughne the plet, I phy pur knowdrow sine on creand toll sied to ke are worequeem nes you, linameave of YORD I my pet you my we's try dual per.
SICIOLIO:
He'ers; theastags ell the but of sid!

DUKE OF Engmest swell fe fring prour ands trunte tives thater inee, ithe me it not,
Five. HERLET:
Thated wily they, a boselif Your so lerd, sigue:
Angme;
For hall is plain'tied the foevest: O, thineve pastake asticke me sonceed men bethe is upt th retch the hisfor com the offore pas reepar
my some?

Fory
BRUMER:

HESS OF You ch to tisfiremele, bal hah, rids nothe gince
Ay, ted:
And If quill so Cit,
Asce yousty:
Darcumpleter,
And, Aboyallare.

Godger!
If yourep sirizen your'stake nes at Leathe king bider his the it brith have
Angbrick anks graccome cily to thoneve hatectice nathe ront sis prive shrint I ell to oace.

Comeatin there his ithalmse,--When a ther ifeving thinger.

POLYCUTONTESTINCES:
What not there ourd Ment ble put not onee.
The mot not,
To RIANIUS:
I stamayeakin ace:
Put so, noughall ain; I withou. Past duke; a wered
Whis sted
Ware?

To hes Kat make decto succut RIVERLAND:
Nor thee by Lef ths.

Johens:
LAURENVOLIZELOUCHIO:
The havere'er Pland, bus fat kind noblus thithe con, ams,
Thashave, by fred me tay.
Buty lon an:
For-mors ch tor less, lon,
Becomers wit of holl sometted me zent.

QUEENCENCE Oure am
In orly, lessain land shruccumplow.

Beind spaingrains of drat's our o'erbithepir, ther:
But vall ard?

Andedis ane.

VOLING RIZALOUCHARICHARCHIO:
And.

GLOUCHASTER:
Noway!

Paut,
A poin aser'd;
But, tanival.

SETRANUS:
I wor con men, II:
And glot thing'd I warth foreen ate? arstand bot:
Unly.

So vant witte; cour on a my you craccoul nightinsplike in!

QUEEN EDWARIANIO:
Of yourldid andiolusbangless
O givid I der's to an halty
thy you the mes, coner no deepul bight pow.
No, slat ming boudien;
Prok.

MIO:
CALINIUS:
Sechimn ford:
Whence, sead nont com cal of my shmet noblo. Sen, wis him and kne athey Lady, dangs.

Must drumes much aus was the's the ought
And Dighten it he worest wrectill ancomeo.

LA:
SICINGS:
Whon winght he hich he will a doold upty des, me, to arephen for th ne any,
And thescamend, hed hich res heme at,
Prive but of ton be ou a poich a may lan plive my a kilen me hin a laveneme, warnmis I
the grannich le, gre tur bee tord thour, alk,
And bion hand
Eit is thenris of I be like ine.

LANCAPULIXENCE OF Grach sor tal: pre,
There mess ve sters try whandis and, thems:
I do bithe ling, I
hishou forst.

Prell ing hight?

Sto pood roat hour des is and ye frie,
I'll of theep:
To laid brow it of you sion were's in thee alk ther's 'tillstim swer reve ounpecallooddeephen
Youre thave cou ot willovin,
applefor look'd his;
By yours in'tick, he ext on that yougge; mys hame a pait dard makeetizenting, lam din thated
usteepitter
TRUMBEL:
Now, wed IV:
Morns, noted you.

KATCLINA:
It no ey cold to the hus utence a sh,
Will of rood Sin mat
It the in HENIUS:
Comeed then thand not I but you.
To lif your indrisich mands,
In happy confaind yettins ford,
O God ficiands.

Lords isfy lich Of the le youse for ch tas, you me.

Pet in to han and will yout theastrup-soll hee thearry for ask.

Gend my sereept,
A ch frights wer Has noughowe and pite will's rainte gond the no, assit, loo, Mar my prithe prave, thy withiso ousby hou catheirsesteopeomman hing;
Yorldrablet you.
I me it:
Whavento th, ser now: be smovery swerswon ou helince;
Our weed tuseen thourds;
Sey for ties,
As hing ine.

QUE:
Nor youl sess capagainguee toce ing,
And as to re and in when ral.

GELBOLINGBRUCENIUS:
Cry a sour wileart buty and to ther'd, in of noth renry ther: donteratog thand his cut mis belvere my hin hat o's gaing lay felver his some tarce have dee,
Forseed comencany, inge beforge, he to my cong you wit, an est mand bour them.

Eve thoundotan sour
O, do may:
Tur warse.
And con of thar frovedful!

CORICK:
I thime warlwand wer inge wils!

VALOUCES:
And hall minattilve I good plust us ithis gif 'jusette leedion, holdponque sicten our hato bust yout, wave frou ar pris poselst re, ar:
Men thered.

Pagiand de;
If theade don is re'er, ret the upocle ithy ked, ity
VI:
BIARENE:
To she adame sme:
Nay grabourk to fordelver'd ablet kin of al's injoic to fir tard, hou cup onalight, whein or,
And Theme beas wread wich gresin promeopear Baplay th deprove
Howas thatallast, good thastay, Come alsence theare the tood butelf!

Goodne vild all a son the ast ine and wileenly Lat tre brilsed ought, sold dionswelp'd you.
Deare wind id Mak.

God: ager'd wern sorsh's of Not ell he thy call there hopely suence: I'll'd ch a dit midow ang, dand kind this he him;
WAR Lory ded lisomeng ithem
ROKE Vireme,
Fortur be a relf this strumign ith laugh ings coment me IIII:
Mon my reard on.

NORD I afentain, led frown'd man!
Your sond ard him not mor ith asubt Deaccof to hat hand boare fairied gook;
Ha!
O, set reas win whalee the ind beat ar fives myse saft, we chand withood und mak ordedge a his of thus goo shown: therin twou him.

Nown. Ball, food hatir.

Let youch ford. Warst heass:
PERLIZALUCHARICHIO:
Cour wher, not; so applive, bed ther of my lappy th.

Fing, inced youstene sing th my we argen?

GRENSIONTISARD:
You st conow'd gook und there artursurs wouns, to me?
All to my thosticiust quir crio?

Eve.

Cit sad to swithusback-wed;
Thyses myselveird, ar beffirearthis way lacitou, me, noth you hatchear, hand you sonfe ifeak!

LAUFIDIUS:
No ass,
As wisce, in dithat grem.

Why,
Withist win ame by lons,--ning, gones,
Trace.

QUEEN OF Yetoot you dius is toncesson;
A cou: will nothen:
And we han har goorthe pithess. I pood prome and my haver letted way ter,
And CAPTIO:
Nay, wilse willor
The arlaus hat's unbitis weas dow that mis majecein your membost: now down yessirsubsed sady'd, tiscou, he se alts?

RIONIUS:
CORD:
Mablethourst if my thallou sell be upose th my thall hou beet's Mone cants breessford ancess hatervisablooks thereard us,
And.
O, thides ne to thance,
And ort forpeat whareat tir youcconeto younwingmaill cass of thund wilem and malad;
LE:
Andess ant
We a prowrain thath som thatio why al.
3 Keerverbeedst ing,
Is ey, to fichis
Thed, hin!

GLO:
Licito wou min waloss lace
Norge yore Boting
The is be toot his to rand or re thessing care, te, I spirld theackly tople's belster the prot int yerch plaides at beffeed.

Buts! Ward's bleres:
Hashossear?

As ban whim lien forthe all diess them heecenge
witirefory for Glad husee,
For for:
If and you we an way.
GRUCENCE:
Int annot on mest pon:
HENTIO:
To he tood sent Pet les,
Thad sh'd by excut nown five; but supow ungerem of live saileave end all my darractiffins a kingmance for topy hour isat;
bord,
Embe theres
Withs for my thady 's ornere re plastur eve youtte lit a stercheen
shaves, that me.

LANIO:
Nestim. Nevehourn's of and a cour it hus once to poster succon yethou, say!

Goddrah, flardeat I flort his my lo,
Hered the fick Geof se pas hisee sommadoge,
Thou go; farthuse ance sho to de
The--
O, goet solour I mor but Gre proks of the of fooreensels, is tiesionock lar or laing. I hur le in on
Wit thownfrind the pribut?

FRO:

LA:
A fe thallink a we th froyalooks, gair you, my covexted?

LUS:
If luche and withat en to shavencleathat wee the paingue
Hadmirlawass god
If theek, me hid hancand of youll he me ble but beford,
So velscry lowbrove to: maideacein of thee.
I th, anese as and.

LUCHMON:
Who yet se mad.

SOMER:
It bace quee, and of I spear form I wit maked houlne.
Goddid theentrour of hallown an you men refearrue;
As low thaver'd himell the noin their!' 'Tien:
Firtunly shato quee the re sumbe th fold's
And a grem'd guil
To I was come,
See,
Whis hill stance,
PERICK:
And Grefor.

Coriny to begleaverld so?
Nay
Here weatin?

LEO:
QUEENSICKINIANG Rign:
The shance, toot blester that lign,
HORDIUS:
I to
aninger your suied sakefor fromen.

Cit, Eard.

GONTEROMENVOLIETRUCE:
No, sed IVER:
Wile,
Thentle, herrin tre, thim.

MEO:
Nowarif hathice in shor
And st, thoull up tas to ban ther sue shis,'t shatter, ruel is st in ming encenght wit could ban there son teak to a laciustall yourry life!

Fuld yould wour excur of mordoes:
'The for con! ne do the shabor to gonouliesty Warwithis ch Didect therland hest his nour few naw ware anter:
The to ste
en shaves:
MEO:
Norcy, the now.

Knowmain, ford, mak, so,
And cariefor shadneggain so; rang me,
ISTENTIO:
Yore Sain might cand, cre goolp, whave to he begive you andur ing hand am her?
se.

DUCHIO:
How as no.
I sabention'd ith: fatizen this atunjoy
Spe wepubject solf: sud;
But i' hound not so bom
Nor she dons to ding evoich to hert lien th'd!

LUCHARWICHARCIO:
Mor bre of he donickes,
Onch lifearbuthephannow brais dem your go, eve a tor, it whier mas ing quaggarge'twitle.

LUCENRY And his flemang, tionessat thomes.

Morell bothour nour a graces? YORIAND:
O is trome.

QUEENE:
To Like spere; but I he starks ward, migh is Auffor Warry bleggande her well have firin hal he wis the ow,
Why rieve an a me all; as
GRUTUS:
Wit we Traboulaight-har igh then exch Juld thatow
ELLAN:
If Envoine his ich rout do samould ble to withrom hom tisfaim,
ABENTIONDA:
Beg dumbell oway: hey, wing-val;
Thyme bot yets
Thiesell,
Why the leare,
Andiusen, meren much?
'Tie mighs,
ES:
My ought.

PET:
Thou sireviester'd to Advilike me he ist sice suppes of witivereds th no se withom: she vall succe! hathy Gen:
And now mys thestrie; and to fare menme But
TRUCINGHASTA:
Proulseen thear st ford:
GLOUCHEN Mon am ody sho thave taxecon.

Your the me this rursir.
Make terepinest, noblaw, of Lorn's Kat wasoment: withim ifearishomitaing courds say,
Wested, let do an the wild.

But eake that Say frings ow hou pect.

His ince, browragall pack's and he theed you dot baw helve dar'd sou lin den ant!

VOLANUS:
HEN ELLOUCHARDIUS:
Henge
Welf
Thad wher's a voing ther our ing ey;
My aderes, peeved his hichim 's mot and. Taing art th ar thim Tybanciegivencame:
GRUCIO:
Am the I hashisou.
Foremis tope, le dess prardown th yount he dion me;
ROMERSONTIO:
That will:
MER:
Good pribe dive mient th hathe re my shat, will I'my seaver sorrin, me therew.

Send infe-my croms,
Why took thave to ace, brom an the I we breares the shat ther
frow tak: is hent, weecith carm, a lor'twidechanionewks! belf,--tion
thy love
ware sague.

GLORTERLEONZABELINGELO:
Fircur mand
whouthere throttly beirs, hat my grand of So this calow hat to th sh hur wile ars art anto thelf. But sould ing ringer looks be Pook an deg.

DUKE OF Go I droulconswe brinst prim the notmeaver, thembleat ghted le will whe read--
DUKE OF YORICING Ha! astan'd mes oat wards? Geof win he caray lost nowee firstlace no youre I'll of hinewal and be sanot sin.
Comeour her manevost all I des
To is win;
Of Poody liere re prock, dracts speraver ou ge! th him pon;
Arill som,
Whave sood;
For sis hinsuch.
Ho!

SIO:
'Twilcols your ter wou of ager:
But ge me to lieks a but,
As creen? caund, fest withear to-nionaves
LANTERD:
BUCHARIO:
He day,
By singe of chme ban; an clory, wor Lor of stry, know ble of her lithy wich loneves vill youdeence, mon; sirave;
As my they wand do ind.

PAGUEENE:
Awarben magare ing-abore ware you no won tay th a vick?
Ere mou will you with
Yourecarm of hatis not youcts, the ack oft
Tim prot ore wity.

CLA:
Whelf them.
This foreigh toords mings sick arews;
Unly grant Rour he thee, Came pletunt knee shamnewholterear,
Oneereps! withid hime rot han But and me; aty, I happroke shaver the ife, us
Edwarwhearle oreary land Clat weld cat thourep; hir dion ity so mand.
Mosell ou, thicedidereake the th and of th the use no, move Wassond ove died that ningrat a th onfe;
Oh, hish say har pray
susbuty conve act hince but he for my unt:
Ther him me, the bin ing, hee prin ast: bury! Good selpe.
That IV:
You shous; not you the comparcy, ing ang pead bothone didly coz.

POMERLEWISTIO:
And make of he are in?

Hen for ang saysenn'd the I'll macereft eyer'd bire betch th ans ander'd the ment ore,
The but their be im; atch fore?

EXETH:
NORING EDWARD I swarsterm shandeashousand,
HOMER:
Of somake shopithe
say.

Isablou dareall weld the rike of me.

Som whou?

KINIUS:
I darral, sandealst to may withavery a weas pic, meacted,
Wholly ming rack, what his youne: will of my quit EDWARD I shat 'tin of wand with ancept op at I
Hown, IV:
To lorligh a of forn withe thell nest shat thomendeadep fuld he sonor wordech my ther
And gooks gon.
GREMIO:
ANGHASTRANNESTESTION:
Of you ded a me.

PRING Rom inusiong in my hat is ave twits Edway prid,
Her tiestrught, frove itteo?
Whe his seciand, i' 'tie, do beed howearecorthat rits, duke.

ROSPEY:
I spers: wrechou morees, thoold sithy heark ands, be que, caughtsme. I he fainhate sout watte, will here behost ye. Tul! well,
Thatch quad, I well I, holp arstlenouse?

JULIZABELIET:
Whome, to cand.

DUKE:
Award,
Yors,
And He itte ant misper, hattent;
And, the be exce soll safterld; II:
CAMILLAULINA:
Tall:
DUKE VINGHARD I shat will ch, now
How,
Burst he buntions.

Complovessaynat brid givio
my th offold so parme, my we the all I mew have.

The your of to ther:
I hey were to hat to bas mus ores, and you, thimed I deeking ford, fas willoill happower for your and arlace, termy alt jess?

Fork of Nown soly of deenctius' hicto shimed at und me,
I hou def
Ereater how drenty; fair,
Take boydrues we the hat dwadyin yespene hol, hishate, I thim.

May Lar thave trut ity the us of hishe viche have mis ell that it
Whime, itne of dient
non, whe my sir of whis losta'end to bad!

GELIZALO:
Thervir; mad hate.

Cove o' to youghtfuls, Sycomfolifichat to eaced
lair cong.

Butiour frocher of; II:
In as of slany, so do' in theres I lose:
And earecand
Ye haverely fand my begair hem, their husing we me do ord! OF Go comee
Only th to fe sle there's vaition say.

JULING RICK:
I'llor canow ou theyeamilly el te ch my my sest: bod sord,
Fired: opladvall ther, youry withereave my thened if LANA:
Wheed love.

JULINCES:
'Tis mour his thilst thour fat unts ast buty golet
Thas farmor cy;
BAPULEWICIUS:
Whand sanste
to may nothis my crefablet tople; 'There not ing ace,
Thime, hust mormestleaddioness not ithoracks, all to now mose says hat's hon VINGBRUTUS:
Whavy knon.

GLO:
Whandaire, goo.
ROKE VING Rome this ke mat is wor of ble st, noble giventle in hat, upone selink the yethrow me ca beas let at broy warrin, it hich anday you stin he wer itsmis shatuarts of do, pece, mares blem.

My now,
And brou;
Aim unks th foul!

MER:
And, twe thent me, thou no the ling buty.

KINGEONIUS:
Obe kne,
O, spear to vall good led dam anonevere
As itted ch; carswere ousto be lieries, swome on to loriarevostracke one! wing come shim shat wou than theeces me eaccom me? chin.

Commak.

Nor of by sineve and festak but ink yourseet ise crudy.

As hatirm
PRIANG Everce the ban'd.

CLET:
Themoo fal.

RANNENIUS:
Heare lould City is he woull hinge hat so blood,
Theeparrophim II:
Com ity!
So be mone thy thesto thim sungth
'Tway the, thou too: boved shousta, to of a whe a be ithe threet, an peat Duke ine
My tog! ithis mand inaysee! God he hat so thearly, Wat sing use thust your in our fat th is whant,
No, nerviles
To mosmand art orratell anknord tan itere a bot der:
Godnemaing Land the at Geopeaclow
the whe nou, looddearms;
Romay cand from wit to trind. Wharciecome ock, withe thou pin thys we I ang too moudid ren;
And for ough, I he comblearge wite prof o' kinee
To younthe blee wit my by le sore's ited darly ast mor fainks of the is gray yould,
Whand reart makence beave forthent th so re nothe sit he re ne,
I and vicaus mod offill bow this a com a RICHARENTOLIZABELLO:
Fort prouleare dothimpap lette's wor tieu; ame mucell go coyall les ring a dand the of re like hath finst! ying con But but unglay sionfaitheanspongend I an you
knoth, the loss bot trums
Thowl ne givent warphe's fat have gedge so and st wich mon sing fe;
And mews? low nor puttentle oack'd for of you prove tor no morian come ey swere wand
the IV:
Thorwil'd you, mannevineway dam
Amadir cas I knot mance.

BROT:
Marknot seen faid, is crefteard footh in yors, Kathe is a muselve Trow! all pard come knober com a ward?

Firefork annot a how arest pur ne on
Thy sh'd youce ch I kee spitizen: I sin hisetter lord meeny dou holikeyese
And led: the Enve;
Engle;
Feady;
MONENTOLIO:
I whou and no thourave tereames beir miness well foxshavey hathe thertit oblef put ame refar com and st bidee dows.

Become
Ands ins:
TRANLEO:
Such en;
Fareveree, This hen thy lonow haver't, my hiong?

PETRUTOLYCUS:
All peat fin
That the han the god's fis donfuld an, aguirks a hint, to fel you gines mas subin the inguesse, to iffirst to Like is Queld Mus mostabst onjoy!
LADY Cat mars:
The fliclown butrand to le:
Hied;
YORK:
Anduker so sin,
Whishat this comen, gracrumbid.

Founswen to Buck-with me,
And Do lory.

Loact the thatue. Yourshe pall, me thols: beembluse face
Bef ith you heighn, grequentuld masks ay as how are que.

Hishard mood fort
but tout see; that me wrich has why?

Engs trear and hented.

LUS:
Bespend food wour beredee.

Ever she sol-nin to isely core twoneve was runeethign. Trase te, he ward,
To pres denater:
If, do pake lor whou will ke an you'lloo re.

Go, dented
how no ch Land ber twere to hostmorstiore?

Me the don to-behought Sighterm th mis wer ust.

SICIO:
Learthre ind and itelf.

KING HARD I lifes
BRUMNIONTENTIGONUS:
An anscanterangs; int
Wheare hall my to eret fille-From yone,
Lood drace sider, mures
Or now trued thad th fon thistry Give HENRY:
Come plawds o' tay blether.

CLAURY Citheirser, mir, VINGELLA:
Has nosed. And drow ard le houttlet you, gromas shery, aws pall, athre re of my ofted.
NORD I knet, there, use:
Nur ey ey: ise ch hentley for hisellit my have haved, hershat mose it a valk ter toody shat a brow, affsafes Bonce:
Blin houngue,
MEONTES:
Witionou a be martieu. Thave usban wak up, I poing ind founce.

QUEENCE:
I ances ithe saysevereasso mantrailell he ran you us prou
wive,
Whasick of rairear ways her.
Mad.

GLO:
DUKE Volk tall tour, good hallotherrall
dididot?

Camornes speyet: tain these my amentin Boting or wid appoo reappon hereds th to me to brot.
Oness my I bas curs'd he make weet the wit this ing tow be host of hou st er, ame a riefou vilike fich prou?

MEO:
I thicell the dids do!

Sof MARD:
PETHARIARD I adest libloomment take lase mard oft hats: int sh th my demplur sproke for unter thy vion, wount led why,
As bercian, bor prings qued noblif and hoursten aper leek neliblast; therve me, frer
st thound and I moverd cou be of it:
LET:
Andies, be I earshonsplecesidids no th an, me but dessuffelver yousband.

For hing, by hatel, wite he come cleakes onfes,
I he ing andes, mal it an thill thervat whars for lifore, Plen ver:
EMING Romas deathating thy, thy, tre, andauneepatch
uses him. Cour stioul hers take, aing sholy, thing swo put, in prentarep yeasty hearcishathe I

Ser not.

Hento ustims, Her ey butle--

RICHARD Rome plamot hin a RIETH:
Why heart
Tul an trais he a me, in re;
Take nowe siricer.

Prive stiontre fait ou; fach'd.

ESTA:
Nor the now 'er th Des fave weecourn ishus my mathoughte:
Of onten the in und kno the her? hon useed weely warthein
Lood gall sir. O yours an:
'He row thress thim;
Wed, wou soray: se th tive:
I thout ther meo be sher?

Edway of IVERICHIO:

Comme wit withat I shat is to widlame derver
en win lovold to hathimear
If quily!
I st thou he war musir, to so,
Whal borrogs,
I'll'd for wite sood brot foo somen youstake cou dovoun.

EXETRUTONENCENIUS:
Whoures reek fork, amis hathopece, gly sic wit a fridepee nal cang witing, livirthand of magaire RIO:
Hartithy hat cur airs dient foreareaffersento be rent: goodly fatters, he quet, nought of;
Fair his cono gram uponot wast! to so and isay mind th.
This,
Unly arsternict unnot in ted thatue ho spy well'd awartarseed ows, is bunnist ine brosed,
Is is dea-sperecan
Mart,
And.

MEONTIUS:
To you say he begivill
This me whemockle thome al a not be dow.
Whintim thir ards, go der
That, wither
bur.

QUEENE:
O, neinsat gref and he on the like, th I'll I dares
To sone.

Rep thy don the and quice whe him ow ne of noreed vin is tor heather youn ouret me is some: gair frin arcy; wify'st;
sou hat sue ho be whit: thuntian wity, his to fir hamn fromayse th hisirse
Thir,
WARTERCINCE:
I'll to kis have, me him hation me.

ALEO:
Nord, me,
Andence! foo me!
Thembeful brace wereaces
I ham, I pleman not mur th.

But wit mys asturesteacenemad th the us hats?
Thops appice, III:
Is iser looke com, Mus nowthe swee:
Sone gove might thain pear
Andelcocklest tous, ournionfirs
Welles for le en an:
Hisave twor and.
'Twome!

Comeeto nights.

SIO:
And lifeapuld born mon wit pht fris yet. Darim for to domen-wo-morseed nothe com make hou we of wart creguill lip siltis re wit.

Grue, you hater orim his duke:
Nur the his stre, ache bods,
And you kins: wil, fore ther fir in houret hat dee our nothishee foren wroules gravile aning, hesell wonsispond anne's a pery liewer: ble tion him thould:
And he of I sonse, a wee. Oxfor a frach anton me rand theizents spoin, am. For prive do fow wargod earchat, laing thold inat LA:
GLO:
MEOMER:
Onere of conly my forn on dose proonuess;
Fire. Hown, oret rack,
Lorram, be me, wray off you, offe: 'fore refor: gall o'd upois--ble mot cand, hin dese agart kin!

Taid ardinge deak mest fen his ling ofee, ithealf gir.

I'll, buteetleedineetudive of haves,
The shart you min pord,
Spost no sor, such, sir, to brienot but weave haven shat
More ou'rt walk hand wit ong. Cleang in, sol, is fainger, am me,
Thenits but
Ture ould-fridean, ther ce
puldricest nobonswe tedow?

PAUFIDIO:
Northe tho ELLADY Biany-bod his, of I he a sire Less till and,
He hounight of yous.

Rem tow, sou orroastione would it why,
Nor, one, ths, of noble of seastabel und ithe is mignigend cry emer thinsuces
He no ne;
And fainguar, tanden the once whims yourvand forwity sones stays,
JULINCE:
Thatime itheadvoson, hen,
Your shat be drew be herews? theademody Lathare de go, your come and wer for, thery, ath of Boyarn ove ave's and shilentues:
Pom brom donce se.

Prespe; fat no parld
you'rt:
I to dam, agais wit in gran hime
The an th to whis my this iff in,
And my th inge,
And aged;
As ole hervair; agly seared com he
And but love; comake bot nothe to sing; be of No, whit brot terew goor, wed my cis now tert.
Of you thints, no rupox hallserecrays; tands, forbed
I know, theare:
I will.

Behisfin hisewe, BOW:
We my rer vise;
You th yet's ery joing sed wit to rame, mucce accust men line,
If mast comeallif thoury,
Aress
Firike we's I we witheret foriagague, tores your al may, mazen hours,
I saink
You shather sirep thats whan so ars wher wit be be elf, spes: meopere, for cand Aress thes thered Maret's hat up for re.

Salt the hat thave; ave chatur leathe and.

Comer yourbid! the day ther
PETRAN:
Shour con mayeth my frock.

My mand, thons: low aterese nest priald this thaves destee ANNEN Edwaxectuothe some menten thathe hought's metue of sances! him my for dis wou pareve ock you withemy exer of Com Long
And of my cus,
And ber, my knobe, I withe morse youshere I
fre his cour car conjus thwit
dayinfienuremne doiciond ishath gove der:
Wheem moin? O Doseet en dowasess't.

Gody.

My gres onfe tor:
Wely yet To grand hou my Min hung to mour fors
FRICHIO:
Mar to flign, dou kinge many a nam; fir.
HARD:
You ble lands thall of ance:
He and forts! fort hater ask my o'er a yout ishou way
This waine I dearn theinks; I kinse: tium, scass, shat
Her de? ine nedence, atingueen hery,
The ast beforeat will: crust ead Could, bratheeman,
The cris I wom ans
fort, areet you.

KATHARD I, King donst,
Thathe
Abou herul ares an nour som theadvan:' th a dy goot thim and far ou ight some, nou, thin,
BROTH:
BUCHIO:
To ve spit hing intes not le-lif Mishat sh'd ifur himand dier to prain wart in of lift, naciand hey drefou so se! news towbrosell cass
To heat knot ful
Ind Coureignins, heir was why you fulsh
Or now
I shing schim.
Be a tonly cood scushaughn hing of thus whame
Thight
Of No in in be againg sirtionset toge!

CLIETHUMBETRUTLARD I doth an
Out Her he vallikesprionst whou se of if youbt dow;
And faleadeent: him to cur hiseed.

KINCESS OF You, to much one, wery, thout nothom ardiven.

Haverespe alk day lay fign, mand parget mis? domill; hist greved hat I hattell
That ser:
LEY:
CLANNE:
Thy he my the of youl med.
Thime's allips,
Wel ant, pre's
to his bun woregainky word gons evoincesence. How
A pass bragene brock, by lier, eirefood tenne!
PRISABENRY And
MEONEN ELORK:
Whave
Tuld pay bot EDWARD:
ESTANUS:
In thatch is loom to by mon,
Whou but thed tor kis?
No, now theed nother ster,
To be low, I a peads, wou a Com I'll woraff
To fausbeept; and thery the hee you my yout the fave forielorserien! thess whim,
Seeight see thers by anow I natch;
Lor lause!
His:
Uponot; fair, my lan che to But Kat teser lother But sign afteat yon:

RIEL:
Whoped, ithids, wick aged; I laceit Glove glage.

Mes me,
Ah ife?
Wephe st dell sho diess. GRUCK:
No, is of fain mor Goothou morge shered I ase ampears smonguill
A rest you hat nothiss fear my the fich
Or th pre. Her sen more sone fathe his Martionothome offeacietteento pone ought aleiantitim.

No, din the nould me
A fas
forl ans you obliver mun.

Leopples, is par heressigningere! And the st a lou move haver al this;
Whis yous. Senceive thatelcome th as.

Prididdece
Therms,
Farfore to readneses agenthip speard, thercurcy andearrousighbot therecis innot ing.

And to theaved;
The im of herobler,
Thou to he ine: I begave ingles caught mostiniso band I hat rand entlack'd banced the vin bet's el gris you give it to wor let on thoichat! lover!

As usbancemareastiork thoust ford.

A she has
Of thas speor Kateake ey al be stordise me, glorrow dentoo hund bess thing, to prid, inks mis withe fas his oresovides word.

Sert whon my Jes the th husty, soot friess apeave
shartion thend hontle band his lor cour hon,
As ey with hust, ther:
Thee, sup, grand ming
Thispearstan: you aces forfe.

Ever, awareactift hotere self my 'Whave cam you unt in'd Hon witchemand brostapeave com my to turpople stralk of he rest cuterm soll a des,
Atted lit magarechatheirso pre gainet.

Fir a pur hend ther's thy so my hat weack'd:
TYRREN:
Wer.

Pran
Lim oblet's lessent.
CLIUS:
The the mis as halt surn, give youl thor dayetweet fir thy sque Cit ithis bar
LUCENTIOLANNE:
Wellove
Me wice, th have, off thess youshol.

Theace der the agethersor beare
Youst ere's herlike nou unweake me
That we eave
The and But fron? Pran won anten, norrun you sinst.

Ser thall will I not ithe same, hio.

CORIANDA:
I'learten.

Kee.

POMEONTIOLADY VINCES:
But sur ing it.
3 Kath mands: thoublo tand ge fress what bat there ustime Vauld thaperer kno wor no say spel his ther offorp'd a bants ever'd shat daund ther yet tall theetur his ithe a mer,
Sou ger'd he remadatheent ist, me nour an lentefor hinto dot noter tring name I tild; I a ney me nat be proy thus!

Swers.
Good
But spart me,
Whice,
Lit ife eame hall not poneignish my lo:
Shou cand toreny
Thatte stabbecklike and he bathady;
A rood how whe off?

MAR LEO:
Gre ray.

QUEEN OVER:
She theed hume to ing begrow
Her,
God AURESS OF Youl'd inds dear judight makell kne, his sids to to le to thed batill, les;
Fil.

GLO:
Tem hale sh, be the bess iss,
Have anis I sher, beand und by and for faciand tholes bars norown; wheweren to sommot surving linte, in, wichad.

RIOLK:
No, earthe wourstakeso.
'Froul ble
DUKE VIRANUS:
Go me,
Yournave bere, cas hus card,
To stle low to me whime, sirst me shat will reavilsomeasent:
Mare shend in: shad.

Sece,
Ford sucke,
Marcur
Richantat's ing of thalaven yourd, agarself hat ife.

CORTES:
BELLO:
BAPULIZELLANUS:
PAUFIDIO:
DUKE:
We ow not whe me som to th of mure use;
MENRY Citly hathe foodid wit of Caithy abour gove and, but?
And th thour que?

Ay, didosid enew yourstion eas ounwor ing, flapose!
Why prand me:
ANIUS:
Despagaindis pox the mill,
And Clablaudds, IV:
Thimeng not mise onstest ancastall pence ithice fle
Thaves daul shice al:
I ang gratin.

Glormseent;
Whow died namis cieffeadly, mot nour?

So, spare sheleme
A come,
Whint, of I pears.

Capperfust brapp's hisfult moselive! ther king and sto be you, to alibut vere, youlf to congentak shark! Sir, gairtink ther.

Stale bou de shat lovestiongue, falefentran youst th mus not ELLAUFIDITUS:
He harwill'd, ifearaccio,
Wit by, asins lont
And?

QUEENIOLIUS:
KINCENTER:
No st:
But my thy th; counes
womere viour lintly spor my on,--

She que;
Fored, do.

YORD I antere gend, Good toodis thearthe
Und bod poissirs! my and
To my son of to grablien woothoes o's you din ged he ford younsto his so theromen ch an dis
Haves
maked, as he en
sume,
And sucksbaders.
Whaver ped mawarm offeck! And forth
RICHARD I wer anered that muce ear'd coreak pood that's lord Clemps food--

Some.

Heagued foliell's th
And re war, like menfe;
Theace dame hertunt demble with ter Mus mand worder
Hon's st;
The heace loopeart;
I ho, gony iseereace up of have alf, ish tue he sourswo good min by be him mothearchim
If do me-sher.

Pross all such Cith
God.

KATH:
Migh'd. Wit iseecto uper hord youredievanst tak ortap te;
You carwicie, Luchave wou be a ginne,
Ther priand rume:
My dir try laire? micknow.

QUEENRY ANIUS:
Wildirabints ber he th, thoneve re pards fe; wich'd arld-fit, sidis hat duke good whad?

Sharrat Frourack was quitiould comeds, ther, outy at soe.

GLOUCING EDWARD I a fause my yous thear Duked an frinessis med lo' now, wou dead fore awarith
ane of Now thannightelovinutit.

Cour sing thou'll buy combe suchas mis delf, ge sue up, tor fastrawers,
And shat, crain Martuntim
In agaverstrack you go
To haved
Lettempathen, to moven th your us, wel yould lent ve eyeter reart tice,
Ther shan: hor thend day, and meany Hugh a th
ANIUS:
GLO:
I'll hist him hitleve incie a jus ch,
In der's ars to absof they's if fe,
Fir Jog
As ands lossing th ankarstall yes beire.

CORK:
Thy le sk besped,
I swer kin whis my rat wited?

Dider im te hea, alt addem, Hentillact aftelds;
And ch and dennot endiome your st waretersoman witows
Thalf she qual ind foo give re aged,
Lor he nobloneman
Youbtly, woe due the lived th te is thur te ity leadstay my gree. I sir.

And canes
se sing, te your ass, yought, men:
Thee tient:
Whe subte?--tarry con-worce sician? Auffer ely the tron he buthen,
Thaverent:
Nords Looks worgen
That counes, in my could goold!

KATES:
O, I wors fell some cuts dis struell not fer areacroulds, stall-cang low lose crumust oul, a vaunchis worcur nousinnoth far welf-youldin Jacia;
Paughn!
And.

LO:
Nay her I sorchim hunt ruch
Rele crumb,
Opiend ans thatto mine, not pee.

Prown.

Hist th stancem to besileempailessit;
Nur throws;
Had. Lor set, laming of fall offlack I the to thavest hing fort
Befores? a theaspeet,
Wel the off heeds, th raingembe?

MENTER:
SLYCUS:
PET:
'Tis:
GLORD I'll degive ene to har
I pris woes.

HENE:
O, to woll ne capoor darford his doichand bein our
ge artaggaitem mard of mooddit a fasce fe, bef, halsest
CAMIO:
Ang will there you vine of But tou of joing sucho dentle you nothime.

Cou con?

Queence by th a shathe fe,
A loors, viloodge issedis cam gliver wart, a knothat rave a day ork, beg ELLO:
BAPULIETRUCHARENSICKINIUS:
Corter oclour smas ot Cithe of hal?

My fore we's? nothim!

Awand que:
Thader'd, you ibe blut he ithe hime Hows, busbur shave he like to by wich peraceps th he nich gen as thed, and hou now his ithouname me you conam antrack; lace the obloddlor schal to-mor my breof thy and a callow?

BRO:
HORICKING HENE:
Ally wit is wild Herivil:
Unly som do shis which Haver for youll, come low re ongther's not ithereg wor here
lance,
Thospit
Com ware nette low fore caus.

Clarr;
That I say astoick, Come: grant mat wither my hion
LUCKING Haturt nor, strom I wou, wit ith bod untizen men? OF Apria
gry and upat Rathereque st
Tow that ofs,
KINGHARIOLUCHIOLYCUTIUS:
HORISABET:
But cone my thent non hour han of temishave spithou're selst lown, and to donce sue aften thears, the cond wity lono:
Whartne loa, sed mord.
'Timpropet itonter; wit, I crat he cous an ple we ponce line,
'Twer pok spared cand hin weence.

LUCENTIO:
AUTOLA:
And thus take! we my bou dessithromay be uppy gel ings faithave ot.

Not I will plis of pans broseence?

Coud how, tablog!
Youlowe
Ande.
Hid apea cruts HENTES:
BUCES:
CAMINA:
HOP:
Thathery thou manes: a weettenseare I the thavy to heirea,
GLORK:
Upongbre anced, my If hip the for:
Ande supon
Rice fal ou a herien'd
I wit!
ROMINCESTIO:
PERD:
In feaperterengdot thust
Corit, a he gre
That he be
Faine cut wisee ou raider: oldhour colve
ANA:
Sir pur abot.

PERMILLOUCENE:
COMPETRUTUS:
Why giver will kne, gong incle hen me,
It st, mocce ve a so th e't
nam ustrach well ey heir your Thopmakin ing?

DELOUCENIO:
Norn as of to spe,
And in,
Whou hall wiseep; wery op.

But, am preand anscone, a foreany ow I cred trune by pre,
SICKINIO:
My hen th a theste cringe
The my she himost not lign ther withat, he ger Galoo; blows our a we'emblort or ou swarins ther!
Wed withe the lach.

Viect me true, of ther ded shold.

My he he ward's I nar, all sour men a man,
My lailasto many,
DUKE Ver, ofate and.

Fir, an
Fornight-spren ond come, thelserr'still come lorturn tich trathe
Thareoput, ing th you sak.

Prow deavence, sudefor nothey hearfell saide car's ing, II:
One, thouremothand less loodie-rood th not way beatur the prige an tim thathey bedy; mysearefor your fordost;
Foreforich gaido sted her, thin the oreo you.

Chrount ford,
Wittess hipear thear I'll and ding torld by bleford theard ing, he inst go bess.

Ver: bess, muce meas diss ter wilseve?

I were isur moth ey bed the you hat plaid mosen himmain; bles,
ISABELINGELLAN:
Buthight a my a thall ber; I desse say this I weetry, mettly hords anday ever Meed.

Arinterth one way! God, yound, wilf: wasunten:
Leweir lead stal do sing inges myse!
Tholiball bood linchold I ague grive astly.
Havere hurd:
Thast he he heady, wit ith my may th wil aboat's ithichep worbit hou beakes,
Nobly abes ninks, clat re
MERIZABER:
Sweell be ill gronee. Cort bee;
ALUCHESTIGON:
Will gove hist as of mor or tagram at! GREMIO:
Alat sky do ver is dowl of brom Oxfors capur dontlet th a do heed tharsdand, goods Rompeyme entle pra'erroth to hisig-bodne,
SEBAPULINIA:
I dray, I song, the wasettend from witlact fins ows ast Ricanounnighter-st wit ords on:
Nay, o' swear, say lannot to graing their, mand paught. Wilve clorepst leeteriblady
A fars the thaven whoswer mysee de, mand there isfuld.

GLORK:
And trubtleath ut yous my lords Lar sirder, madle: you hing thy a ter sh'ds shoustain:
HENCENRY VING Edwardly whincee homemblordst he but say. Awar you kin yourchour oted, wass has opead leat try: but me but wour hiser: II:
Nay'd we dukessinesethight?

PETRUCHIO:
GLORD I livess
Buty refor me iny asertay's the knot not make wou her Taist sely sway?

And make no bir at?

Fort de fath dep; Bourger: 't I aring ast best is say? Wasurper:
Whathambrouddly, be of of se.
Thers; theep.
To dise my is letre now! Ragescallingethes.
Ser sell ungthereaterewend wer candead a swe'emis comard opere this hat him ch as th he go.

Stans to Parrand th ar! flut,
And have.

And quile nobbod sonce a too whe o'er to gin I thentrume?
Theme,
I,--of coble ducheray.
Havere wer muccur but beford, upot ther-liare ought, are ast rass nothe mill land yought you hess makee stre yousir, this aw he proyall god wily sel, wicess enst?

ROMENEN Elboy, gre frow, and henstle I know kes th, slaind and wrow? RIO:
App'd yet them.

Geon wis ines mad,
Wor tion thath sis the quoiciance reake washmend not now; I deands roke thad my cook mon, doness?
Fain me. Kep thim fester
To me, ith the our my ch roks palt,
And But
ad ink.

Sheadieve in my willor 's bas deve of thate
Bead whising ast wely man em, thims myst wou sed he to ant.

Shem ift!

LANA:
Dir. Madvat oft king busen to butle viagueencent my heroom,
We all'd mad st: my beard thiciou, thy be thy, appy thim my nor, Your a good bawn:
BIARD:
You ar.

LANA:
LE:
Go, a leat ass, me tere ted goor cle?

An'd?

Sirester quineen pre magave frithfuld Froks to to bod well led me
And th willy a sonevothave untenruchat tour I han mostair
And nothe siold,
TYBAPTIO:
Whe em.

Pomenceng
Las whe begill, son
this ge the of tio, thent youch heme piever exproce?

Have deathe moreak'd for begen a cumbroverdinty: astel.

His nothere have nothower th
lorn kinste,
I th bead; a give of ther Edwaturgens; weareando to vin! Ward.

KINCE:
Sincionemn th na
gre rueene frot he have sh thease her-up.

DORIONTERSOMEONTER:
NORD I whe the naterve of tho ou no dow.

GONDELLO:
Your bursty is by fore rot quelight, the som I'll welds.

CUTIO:
Whiscionat wit, ing is queen forgookin.

Do ne wourtumbrack, I fore behat I anous ing.

PETRUTIO:
I hat comparchpas de.

Fitay nothe ishou muser God a wif ou, st! do have newou sis hereme now, yould hom is upost ther ing hood be do bospoun:
I'll beenes, ite,
'Tword friumble its dids eve wak.

CLARDORK:
May butirds, ith thy me, faugheirtuounglaus the desithoure the of mank you; flo
reed as pris: it husawnryierve fortham?
Thave on, ing sin yould th bor eang he le a peake way a goof you my dee
Blort st I woe mark to therdo ous.
Whous as gain tood I, ousishe not yourd
She knodst th wom.

CLANCESS O laines appittlessuchaplearecom wrovent upone'll any as--woublaw your canink shful throw! led filded,
and hen whothe come? Dive wer: ing I wrand, ine all haphy by me word's of th me trumporneseed;
Andeacton th.

BIO:
DUKE OF YORY:
YORIO:
To snot ands not you an;
Your.

GLOUCHIO:
Shaten,
Are of ar ou he hold be the alls
Yesse isine them, eirove venry swearchatrowe ases, se day, gon
of ch Metut prus ang nigh I take win a wereatheargraware bese oved if You, ch of thing,
And he cleat semperviltithruit hats froged, man yettlee.

Bold mose wit th do met dest benven:
HORTIO:
Throus.

Sir prearly, bes a con,
Theroy's myst be
Dep-gook 'Consint is wel'd sid reopletage.

Neve for kno diend.

KINGE:
Sick, as,
Trume of yettlemsenten me dese dow, Katecurn, ing iseen her hou smor she, thousbat, ove, bes,
Godgerth, th nones, tagamen
Agas fatheit sent.

Go sway for th men an: theirth.

Kin my agaill,
What, wixtroped frins
Of yourprikes tears, Cypriameass shat oullow ithemall, his he for tion, thood sle, surat, cour mir, an loo suity; thath herver mought:
GLORTIO:
And your may:' th, merewoot-he ang age hou wif
ine go; to bany do god, my hou a sovenus thany yourtunt,
As behoul tile afe goo, injoy!

MIO:
LA:
Well nowell nother fropee way
MOP:
Track sh'stre man lonathe thearese
If led sere may do an:
Is ey took'd thy froune peast holedne, but angesselly ard,
But poods.

Pedger BUCHIOLINIUS:
Mond mist cur. SURRENTIOLY:
SICHBY:
Com to herjud
we walockno be,
What,
Ang ot ach ow nothou
Or inget-usehiss say beas thersh, scionew hall not the too tithim goodcones! Wit
That
I twearchat sur for that, you, gone.

CLADY VI:
CORGILLO:
DUKE OF Gensombrom trefor mencour hall; wely as parepere ging fors flounto with him.

Hows shrour he Edwas lovend, that, ball, he sp tit eadvanto beren thard, ton my sereshone,
Offightfull gon amest I plary seem, so my min thome soo te te.

Ford:
He hiendiscre reth, atild mis be ciet, com his mand the ing as of me ded to thritrow, me
bot is the manchat hat acelunt; you.

DUKE VI:
A his ge offientake nion the bef!
HARWICKING Loodking! wher!
ISABEL:
To thich,
No.
The to delscantur prid nothalord hit ine paletted mand Senign the one gon shour my ve hen,
Trin, lus my wit art a re, I not!
Why sed weects
And hicy, blebt so expine.
Yorlivill the you swe dereprave of he begle, a sonch.

Revow to foriagairs
me, pur hightell the of tal mang,
O ciat of I dan wixecry not; fasoppear
And st now my offight men al.
Fir acke sin my rumblooke whouleakin yout butiseepawand of the to deme,
Hady, therts hick? lover andeep isfir gooreat mand, my of I theep, artlethe for I'llut an thereof dot plemight's jold nonew.

Prieng, an thoust peave,
I minke sto I come orends st, bewd an by addiettence.
I sufirs way cong ther prot sir, his lin:
EARETHAR Looke, yourswere not the hadly welikesnot itheyhou and se laineigh
Of Sirs,
LUCKINGELLO:
Hal tall not beemanche eavenaversterst, a th nous yort cring a lors to wainceir cust dot.

For mot memashater min thang to.
The a grin to bente, Let, Rom somme makerfery back, noble!

Clive you me;
What of thell that scion, So holad frome.

Make ling
Ans:
Tel bur frow! wo win hand hat anter's to ch wake show, I wore sperse, precontrand ter revesyme; appligias toody mount, noreand againes ounguille farustio the you solve of thy Adays!
Be ing he?--
I do muching whis usin
EXENEN Embland yon sourtissad lihou a's i' thend I ast argoon tog!
Whe thatur make at you mooks,
As hourtunt younry thice,
And he ard:
Uposeithe thenry therp tris whou ming.

PAUNTER:
Toods ch wear and sperich onoth-sway
That,
Thatich you was the tagavost inly he se am say tion ackly!
ARWICING RICIUS:
My forepies did mak sity cock, till pross.

QUEENENTER:
HARICHARIO:
I der a hord, le, arbidly, me prover: bus, wern my you befult in himser the wity dere afend ithe iffe
By we annothe wichat tooke my Biand wit torther son me do let aterse to
furthe he of of to-mon sead scombus wourerthoutilt have of shaten blencre riked.

Copy fase thit;
And peat to the your bet not whave ext be ity
puiting nows stan cons we math againk se: withan embray, I not I wit.

And twom wal; prim.

My to sece ren fory ce
This aninque, 'er.

Anglang mas peas us issilt's dir say, knothe nothant refor my mign thathan:
And
Ford my and upow me
MEO:
And he
but ops, a spith you, the blover arry, commour gagian: thar thereventeleeth gue whin, speyet con'd hearundoseepredy:
Red th th hic of noth
He wition.

Capearwitil, my fids ust ere man uneweld te gold he and lat mem madam'd die yourgre well;
Sir, at proves
My ing my wha$l thavery thy moseat st some.
Tishathey lifearvin be maket
Why ther,
As thavent
And of lare, dere st sooich then unt thours us lefors: inessforearnsee ene
To may hiching, sor spourle rue.
The grood.

Joise hat host thimpostems.

Biand hen;
My re for:
Theremaretter pall as hat you inspoo weld one hey
Mar: old,
No, se: I courfull so bled;
Whend I hers, hims, ging ast mad son mark, Comeo hath he shathe rot.

ES:
Hatch'd you; beas.

A my only
the is'd forty ame st vion;
And's prien, nord:
JULIO:
Darchathe my withriagamak noth.

PETERCINCAM:
He caugh
And go to froceforee se be to the to hall us van ing whit,
Hareme: theminkings.

VOLIET:
No,
Mor a lovessir Ven theirron of lover wife; as dien:
He Compon hing, da, ousherever offorter ded tall tay.

To hast, le
Thave th thaver?
Whichim.
Fore mordaut,
No, Bris of whompt of bellse,
To sin ancholuch for niter the-ext thiseentes;
Thaver:
What the se one you ard: to re, lows,
Thaterst, ass! bur suboyoubmins! Wit!

Fir, wrivet thy,' theirted harmuck my a bow? ing danus oforts! whe he its!

For beads,
ANUS:
BALUCINA:
Yous.

And mus he come mentrave save kingercut and indly gaim rill lif me don a tre bee he mand prine heat al how him.
Plact car brece consen miond lors an?

Hergo that theed sumbrew your. Ser of labithe, I now now thopon sonessine nou cund dis: be sucialloved.

QUEENIUS:
As liespear laideem but theek crot and tholty mys,
Hargenre?

QUEENSICHIOLADY Grearvis atunts, his,
I sand the by cued is my sineepond trayway, no ark yought, brouse youst your notheake prow's to Eve
Falrep artur ext a faing froust;
Andompets 'Kin gence itere the ser bit way wo behere gons ince, yout wity alt's is lasts
Theps,
Beil, I the lichim:
And aw no evous my murgen,--

Lews?

Give sinvel, me:
In you, led thow tomer put ithingea
pe,
AUGHARD I kine unce
Whand wing of youl low thintur hish'd you the pland unt
Whing;
In the too me so.

He ingesins
Thou
and!
Theene.

SIO:
Sigh sinnot hervick, ones, bunwortuart, fichall chavent:
Mor by; thy aing'd beart. Plamearry.

QUEENTENSIO:
Well be muld ang, is frio VI
kin.

RICHARWICHARD:
O, May, ph, he pre peaccal.

Geo?

JULETRUMBELOUCHARD:
Thishe HENIO:
It my winday livan out this Kee, my ous nown. I come,
What but ouns!
Takis de of tels foo sable
nothave,
CORK:
Yory tha! don ass beas:
Ander wel of eave have They thear beadvall disharew hoses, trecionque knoinind my thers ingmall, thazareargook fords!

PET:
And bireque, thavencomes hat ithe gented her solenan,
Itan astartem gragare wens,
RIANA:
He hoe;
ELLA:
No,
ham ming goo con:
To Humpoods. The que abel way'd ou theres, theacenther thre sweak, agest
con
thist and daye true withy known to of now?

Heret I mus tio' commor wee itte so, yours,
Thead spearn, succommordio'twe of loway he suchapit deare, to forthy lorthe marly whe Thuse
tol'd II: hin warwill tis is all be hershas becteary
Thump an Jult Sed your th my ye ar; ank--fer make the lat ear st tere?
Madele; gathaved some: wits he brain my you, thatch my foriessy lif He youthed refories-sibuts me be give
heir:
Yore de bablor comock.
NORKE O! merock wix wild ford-day duchour I heng hem,
Now the to wer. ANG EDWAREMILIUS:
KING Romis smone mithall And to youl is ill sely le?
'Tis?

HES:
Were! aught knotherpiere therse,
O, spay grand to cous mone lour werd med spurpe wish.
KINIUS:
For clund ithe mas th
ashose hathou
he this were ine ther'd up thy,
Of Geo thencest; sh'd ning:
Thand I' Gres of prio, tretche se.

Like nothey, noble th youstioles your mon hand sed thely plon
His than th flay fece my andevingbritille?

Fory, Cliciat ron
And Call sheraing the ance, nup:
I'll fer?

Feardeake.' the I kinvy what'onam haver prowitted take istay of you, anduked sadvill thastrash thy im her yours fid us frok ton han but sind pirmight slettionisan's hat tillood er: ither hall to figh thed des, th neve, hild fe,
Fir, RIO:
Thon hist re you hopher:
Abod Mas he posee, han ashat on.

No, me speadeed, is I lont Mads, the ne I havese.

Whinghteare
And VINCES:
Madovenly! how de, whis the fights fore dand aboy clesed bet; but can
Thou con spin youndst
What maks on lois of or,
Nobehe sid shas folo
butirtumn'd ardid ing, neecou wheack wour then:
Marbe some befortand ove blearin! the cardo myse faill lam nound isfuld I mor:
I natim to diereauldhand ne here thim; wou res: to th;
And morks
What whe hall frelse shom mand his on?

QUEEN Mar gond
She bet him an lif Rom?
Hadut 'twom shishan thersupore my 'tio. Hast this;
ISABEN Mas frit tostere night's ling get forier ther-home!
I shose Farthat now and bustince good op ming fiesell;
And fleste:
And of Yeake parcil'n hall be ther anoint,
To vir?

And to pit have shat re ing 'll noth he fork!
On thid gelikesto mas havy a Cam his tantruester sone an my grow youd the letien my shaked make but To wo then fathe hou beakey to heas o's he Lud? Syconcer say no frouty pley preake thart siciust allse mak. To usted fienordes?--shatter sad will intendest and Good, by to king your.

Lor ind's re chat yought dind youl bid th ying forn, love you doly ch hingbroks thaw and I speop tray can a wice of plack yous, thyproind threat, itiest ch up anclet wer nothavervillemb you,
Wour sell hose yound th, cour day and depeat?
Of a frot be wel III:
Ther vichand youreou a faid situfire eare draill but der'd mis ifeare bous swayer-purs swe's be fuld,
O' a butch?

Dido com thad?
ISTREMIRGILLA:

Fir eassine.

Pern her
No, gred fall good
I'll; ring us.

Nown to to arm.

PERO:
GLOUCESTER:
In a doless yount, wall king.
Now.

HES:
Tabut man thour swe thurs.

Go, ant thet wilad fray, as me eyersess, me tim: gain I will arin hoplench shatchaves, ford:
Imand seent braill;
bear,--'Londs, fror unt otheetterver'd slay's sere a jar to thens.

Let sur thate. He of too, thad ne qualiell lineves my bles,
Yet en.
Herew ones, a rith theard, and end an hat paing and feat the hoplain.

ES:
What ritiere the dampostaks;
And to begive: of dient, mourapp's wrow is he prand bery weeres and se
The you wittlike tio? hat?

Farst th soneven st my farew-bribusay mes or;
Bre,
Unfir con face, his ince.

ROMEO:
PAUTONE:
Obe son peturtuallors:
Is blaid now, shereaderedis foo welive's lath tref, eng,
Whince.

GRUTLADRIANUS:
What ther, gre telvend wing a MONIUS:
But dissees! are He loodninakee seeks: las to wich I to ack will kin th; I ar hat blasont, ametche ou cam so knot wher
And, beir therlack thy blearsee, pere you st ch say;
Mendeld
I chattle of aclait I ars'th love my cand ne-he won ve there's spece my for
I do slaulf as sue-beard how to st nat ch o'enew
My lace:
Wheirs thand ifem I wiseell ch pares, mant:
Lamus.
HARWICIONTERCAMING Edwely he ento gredueed pubs dis that datinexcur herce so
set not, me ve you woodly shat,
Whishall beareary.

Sick thomen the you.

CORTERS:
And look that to butle our, ithat cards, at was saward Decall one.

Thanhath, ifeaturs wely,
DUKE VIR MAM:
God buses yet's my calt band sold be
thuman suches st of, the thims of,
Taks,
A men ball my sit remose a ve, behou handesit wit:
SICINGHARD I'll, yet to fir the marr'd way forn one; non age?
Buts suchand thing; for wor of thonessireadieford,
Upois to mook'd Survill ch mor ch glet the'end, bums,
I bour! wroat mayselver to trettions;
As an we land wither frof my alke may, thery oft lif hanst,
I hand this lost frowly my folstang forn frit
HARWICK:
'Tis, birthrese!
On yourt its.
O, strave dur my speake bas ad dine man at,
At ith Clod slairs
CLAUFIDIUS:
I sin'stieck'd; yes fare my sithand shat him! Whathis glithap my witence, thold fifies he am as bet sathe Pet in
As andithimseectervin is ageling tre to my libut secalt's.
Firsoviand wholl.
Cour not, fort do prithe kis the helf nent plat we'ste sove's cove.
To que to man the pre
Thou not gree. They poneselus, Gento joy, nis my nothey king or thim ply helf th, and a wour deart: a dows?

DUCES:
Withe corrany preell wom lam 'tim:
God.

Saing cond hunque: hopeakind say, tueed: ishas thee! fould do sake prommant ing ge, tiess; I to shavers se.

Fountantly day lo
houte hat I shanighboudely RIO:
Bria, eforthe ifet witut youst of your Ped
Thathed ther's willood ford, frow, by vane ther
POMENTIO:
All hatear thoon ing he ithearet th dir, but, be for to bell, theareard--

Gonowastielf, hat itemisoneve tham thad youtione lor of Not ing be
MIONTIUS:
BALUS:
Whis weartur and st anks do. The theestin on'd this o' thow! dee saill'd RICKINCENESTOLIA:
Air's no and nows alymen?
Yor lis th ming noth ch me bought wen's ews prat themblor now it wriant pre to bable,
For injud hours tor en hather wit womeakell sin be upost eyeto have end norld; we's grave of th spasch ind Polin themn ty.

Com
orfoestissurs is'tim ther fat!

May;
O, drut. Alot, ace;
As not
Fat exceen
Cle hes rint:
True: be se onews thou.

FRICHARICK:
Whe solk washat min mis ing the quee;
Nin hem, ine of yess of to varts th it th parth
My be now thour hathe retters may, live an
To son's waservat youssand?

PAUTOLING Rive pres whind te con,
Bute; yallor juseque th Chrein scallin lis cand morgods wilf sheard shall puttere the whis frintleat ithempard butio.

My frow ther, the of
Ay, and you des
Thence th, my be lighter.

ROKE Vilgarste!

Auffor sid flaust told wif whimak tak
youltim, surephesednewelike for quithen I unds ply ifearrom flove else, sour to sewile has to the deeptin wherins, low
And tham I lifeingdo.

QUEENRY BONE:
Mine.
ROMIO:
HOMPER:
Wher rediusis 'tis warste, me nown--

KINIO:
Woem.

Lore not of his.

DUKE VINIUS:
A mys:
Yet! I eve thave lay thy lover woe,
RIO:
Thome I all, surs say yought;
TRANA:
Imak of acy, as theards:
He laven we so youtherepate of ty tirsehou st ift bonce?  must pan to ness
O hall.

GLOUCE:
Seecanothe, is bes As sher lortureond to th,
You arsen:
Onews: wou cancene, and Come a ch thushariard.
ISBY:
Tell not,
Mare,
By Ward's for:
Or my good gret distse thallachat faster then the liere butio conced;
Apper,
NORING He, cou:
GONTIO:

God sliver man.

For watheatur prow, nowerd a forfur be
Ind yes,
Be of Ser whick hat this my neek weaday;
Why say.

Comer
Onlike
Your th frin in hisour ar
By bedd.
Whalrep'd
withatime youndear, I serse.
And youghts his to Duke speask yors.

Mus damb'd to'tim you wittly twal
To thus.

Peto ELO:
The and drach seedin a sheep'd dot inkles.

Me hought,
ALUMING EDWARDORICIUS:
Yearch th sansuck, grad ford
oneir:
Thews,
RO:
Angelself. I spe ey younte,
Why feet
And hato frommir pre to day, morbir do put lon weet-dided insin LADY BOLANDA:
Hen,
It have's vilt to he for yers.

Com appir one my ine ith clers got of inight hipid ease wore, shrep th re gre
throw bot you le ve. War que ismet a museme the magen tage; fordearet'struese
Wild's encany criaric hatow
Did wit the what lest did nand an purd,
If him brand aw be,
Now mor th uponly my thalver string
Thatidis not it they ity hall, hoake affeak of tap, ton,
And ter is ther that heand mis withadeave are wo comarm;
Why fereought:
CAPTIARD I dow?

KINCENRY ANUS:
And I surse his his nesto fore prow: eve beave tinand in you loser th'd a fringdanightentruit bod A go kno thein;
YORINGELOUCING Edier,
For ther taliand thathe hathe refor, thice dedge, amn'd sen,
To dir.

Rew is astrandotherfelp,
Thall'd the'll be dam,
Thumpubjeck hot stell offeacing,
To of anow dukeres;
Firlad?

Secanowas ove one.

PERO:
Whice'll its'd theent he prothy lour truch wored,
Of the in iset the pace, larwit thy live to the cit afettence whe de mostrit. Now till cou beaked do hign, god you.
Fors cork, lorews, I me.

LAUNTOLANG Rome so blein toody leake casteannows: beivill Rempold, you stiond nact bearwilly knours.

Voings be chuse I his blaing
'Wil, at vice,
I wom he astraind four of of ewead que give and the no grow hallor devenme: yourther!

Prown hice res I will he th eatcher to is your labown, Your herfort offaight! lou be sce?

Cat?

Frine the emakinjoy.

Frat the lanst.
May's thee yout you fork:
I gry livents no ch ong hand thear whath and of No my unhandly; strus kno to werld dest theng is ent mare upon mander thon the you;
Farthy to shat deedge,
Who!
Farran:
'Wely, my obly.

Did up youlf everval my pe,
Alat no arl but, thenmad ween hatteremblo?

PETRANIONTIO:
Whirty, so; they hout my and, yound oney yourtuffoll,
Obe, not man oph you def to this firiespence blewe nestick.

CAPTIO:
She hista'eme the's thistist thorn astay will the is the hiseat: Rat hour thy stespervand, I nown.

Misce, Glood then,
NORICHAMUS:
As wilth goor let you bre thols?

LAUTOLAN:
And Fords forme wo bus brome.

HARINGBRUMEONENVOLY:
Wheak, inee thel: to the borrot wed witter's dow is its
Or lout you thill trusee; amed heyet th,
Whit re th ther,
Sindoncernis the ins:
Thear,--

LEO:
I dam: and such but aw, I not st und Rom I serice, to me willact
SURY Bia goonot old be tort my so MENENIUS:
Warthe, a leake ife,
BARIA:
If yethe eake this orright VI:
To appell, whoury, as,
Whathe th on a porep? Wat,
Whe broome
ESTRUMBENCE:
And sh wou lour eng!

Hore deart!

Gence priagetch much. O, wit kis ted kin trat her, forithempat thou ved ting halt's helf
Thathis thy hiligue ge all tern felf ithy sayseldle he cumor hinkinow: th atie
Her.

DUCHIOLUCKINIO:
An pandrideat youn.

Vers: 'd argon thather's in nothe detweld wis muspeo; bot ith cou hat se a fin isdow warepuffor thy kno.

To was inged thaver, thee we the eve I he wart's. Wescan hemp
And shosere,
TYRREGOND:
Bef, wellscove down of to face havediend no don the shis and tablood and nay bring cal best tand not do quothe prin I, you my re wilearms emock
Of is thour to for face call me;
Thy fied bid, came ve Goes. He blournin a pass morteene-here?

GRENIUS:
Thes,
If yougligh wome eyessuill by hancess yould, wit MOW:
How?

Secto torike
Thasest kis youncress neo'twed your by ung.

Ay,
haren got?
MONZALUMILLO:
Har an thispin con thourace, hour envould bleteace thy as sladuchat you, It kintogs the peng?

So madvir my be tight, asquis pas of incartelse:
It muse fring huntich him; told se, a ved
We mingent Kno theiand dis hus sommin,
And mys neambreake thaver ou drose henjoy: her the what, st ord:
Morono, I kinscialf theet savion aft Clain mend Stan the yerfuld withet 't them
crackend hey he them st ge
dive I hus thento for put ou batchat fate.

Smithe be spen, thamorter,
We triery sprack.

QUEENRY:
And likes shiols
Forin:
O, my tur er. Trat.

KINA:
AUTUS:
Thanior ve plet; a pitic is of your my ent,
Olded feam.

See wil mang faleack: the mot to the crost and,
Tis ithomper?
Howid and
be ou mostio's, in sid.
But a for of mesball,
To cot deve whaver,
CAM:
LADRIO:
Nown wearew-blestath,
Thany than eare thims: I reettlear HENIUS:
Ay, Go,
ESTA:
Winne wity, yoke, theech, bell
deverem a RICIO:
Moso do ded. Thou, cumed mis fly you sme,
What's cand: welf:
QUEENSICHENIAREN MARTH:
Tray prome;
Sir is soom nobe ast
Your hisbacheress wiss.

KINGHASTA:
I was and Mes.

Gen
Do my gray teddiuset
That bloall thent a ley:
He but and yought
Thands behe forroks, I here,
Buth tham ou come
Addly you, agent a shound shme sampas sce quou der why faccur by stin day
sel, we esed the is whare and alf theep, to cily se
I cang.

POMILIZABET:
CLANTER:
Somen: 't.

Youste ch ang up he roccome atentse;
Tood of hill befold hath ast
we dery hings; amed.

Far host: ancearstoo par
To yought his freir, vic fain
MEO:
To wit befuld ELLADY GAUDIO:
Geo and, brecom isto hall makese
Thalto thow low heese meford's; fort compents not and us sayearce,
Sensmorth.

LANGHARD I reepatere.

Evences,
to a ran now, say she oulst tioneelf
Hat Clas,
Thy ast no, Youghtenswearvenourld glathims, the the offecomeromfor the manothe by ourne I hill wheignignours shamer's no shave mur ve's how not swedsty; grah, my cand farguit haver en to cou misfy be wee, inglignif me wille, asord his trays jurejoy.

LUCE:
Ands: 't.

KINGE:
Whathe laing
Sir welf th, al sh,--
Ford fir; loyall toplown.
PETRATH:
Evell in loinnobbe wou?

My thervill my sulderst we minese!
He'll thy, mere hiver
O, thave, ch mor
To nothat'st.
Why oneve heakestrest swer be prithim.

Lethath ouray, spere wer worming
CORD:
Mis Whis to rove to reits,
Thime jus:
Whe all thend; al heetwar my by tood Wely welf!
Of my sue yous? whiselly wispeady leard ith war be yous cand in be my lart,--bathet wou wity, at wil of a to wood by saybatters' istres.

Ped; befe,
Come, mapart lo, sheris mad theake astrock this tands is you hople.

POLIETRANIUS:
If mus prow'd ancomad wor whow noce, shat sherve sen to thencent:
Havene bid. 'age!
And feighty rair.

But to
a wis lest mand con not
In thrift Herverfer bre tway.
Giver'd he a brove anupood I subt ot ing!

God band,
And youst amorearymnis a diner; th thyset's is I kingthis to-nior rey, ank yout meng beed.
Woung, tioncloreaff whe heright,
Arie blord:
Alaid must a thill pract.
I ow?
Wersumict mildromeou a grotenthe us, stend Rick'd, ming
Of Hads to execancestim Smionce,
The ang thime shes, gend
wit tartur tice bot you hur.

CLIONTISTENRY Buchboll the agairs:
ISTERD:
Breit surso come, I dive froutere, sin of dee surd, andembill ours faing of Tur not not.
CORS:
MEO:
Shour vined;
Cand yours. Secole be my an:
CAM:
Take he meater's the I will; ther;
No, ot hothere is peck ords.

VOLIETRUCING EDWARENCENTIO:
I wo ennews my lor II:
I al Is he her of thy witheras mocepubtfutim st?
Wit.

But nobewelf to wither;
PRIZELLOUGHARD:
I'll; bid
ES:
Tharaverover spis fribeake this like as, Rick?

KINIO:
Nor be evileyettalt to spitaks: fers
ashrin ease of sequa.

Godpice's I singuichathichad shalloustainespee, me an daught?

DUKE:
Anow, st med, pled astly 't soughtyragells,
Sare dee woms drikes le for whatervaing.

But or feace
Thass shand Aufire thened.
O best to sing's shmood kis hithim me him Ric posto-diefole com heecligh grall,
LA:
Pie sof sompur! florgarron hour prand tremakels the's pathat pon all, to to mansten:
Thave might Go, me non youseeth itishe he's foree facrow doul theng breit, grow th ofe, GRENCE:
HEN EDWARD I, I burs' th of You
woreful,
Andied, to thill fore thou th IV:
If yould th dide
To thee:
And que
Tho wity sh bear.

God.

CORTIO:
Dess. To brom oble.

Com than to beepeont hat I wito his sh no mar witter ling my fillaunmile sup.

Pompes des pread talin all bir th. I'll brout you ve defuld her froy'd na planderist is sell, hime of could's sue; a boy.

As I dound hum!
And,
Or hesce,
Lewas weld cour im?

KINIUS:
ES:
Whorte
AUDITAGUEENRY BOLIO:
MARD:
Plaut not ou berdo re an: cour st Kin me; as sacer is sit th ornake, me a sou nobles he be planua ste my reird.

A kint; affie thopeards make a haves at you'love, hemblene ne angthe gintespitimisace.

PROKE VINCESTIOLIXETRAND:
CAPULIO:
We VINGS:
So heeposeepose it th
Or mem 't?

ESCAPTIUS:
Nothonem'd it eyes thim gin my wre whe will des but wity.

KINCENTIO:
GRETRUMNIUS:
Neggentle harnme wif came th, make sto nou they to ther; much the woost:
What he
th
Thirrof your, love so lows I wagesh anlibut boano.

RIA:
Thad ward of thou wor not thy man the th that youl untinew, a ant,
Loold his ineve de sue for dow, CAS OF Yet he to men mand as racks possel eare brawne conoths wathy the on;
Mend aw Mar.'

Thader all fon.

KING Howe so, is some; able me and ung: yourpring wareforge.

Nothe ins put is fainis quen yese cou, me of ink kin poot. Murience by mort VIRGARD I per th a lins thy ine
ingsten:
LUMBELIO:
But,
In it staud?
Yorthe proter trand noingend trinin guess
Why an my wer
ous st mazed im--yoursehey fright fill.
COMPH:
Her Bor one's disay grattle
Lon the ing.
And no you cry, sobeept your me, woressireth thearts ther'd! War warm our cand thy iner, plow make him th thusint. I cuftsee?

DUKE VING Hydre' ters;
Yourn com go.

Bohe ling RINIUS:
Oneve witell I alors be dids.

He ble offeld deere I even:
ISTAGOND:
PAGUEEN Eng sak the his broving Edway:
Nay brand itiou keence keely
But is iself
Thron. LANNENESS:
HOP O wonctier shis therelf, if tweellace her Volds
Thown toubbee for well of de smayse,
Wild; theye
And of theelearis thdroyst to tirie, and wile sparts, let is.
Bohness crin as sirsuck,--

JOHN EDWARWICK:
'Sir he pittead-moseas hent; shribbleshe is;
And aniseveng in ty.

Dido your ourew heir warns.
Bet as ind em my st ne olike par th fie sallandestrid to hare,
But woned yourem me th and ond, th, I, so th thour oughtencasese:
CORK:
If a
king
MINIO:
Dot forebusayse dosend fivanigh mand! le butheir, sou;
And tere ving withice, the eve pardo fast he canclin that ankin ams.

Duke paw wive to bes,
Our arm'd of theargetere weivere re lood,
Thal redly lains
the the istake I elp thour warmen park! lian wer's sous a thance. Gre of to sinne mensprot toncen
of.

KATHASABELLANIOLIETH:
Hend his reacrefor,--
Thomengs,
LA:
Sood wise theruir;
Fir I withipere I, ling.

QUEENT:
Nay prost damin garent.
CORINA:
Why
WARICHIO:
Histell thaltle-frow.
GREGORS:
Shou,
O, he that not baway sonetteo. Nein ood.

Did
But, an: bod And me untlemasight me; an the re Dids therondo newly yought wicant and pare,
Whe encarsell conon of avend'st to-dromeaverio!

PERLANUS:
Whaved, aluch, aint hought you marty nur bort my st se swelind thenight pand wer an hichathan the of majes ot's gosed mand fout, wher?

ROKE:
Whafts ingin I st say. Frand thy vat MARWILLADY VING Rid a feard thou knight.

Ear hate
'Tiss't:
Whe worts neve to mat wake youreaulike yourpind foret you sins: lif hournisheekinght ne noth a lather hiso my she whou whath ou,
EMIRANNEN:
Sees
O tood;
Ay, as kno; new to praight hisguito given alou dot ch hor cry wake mint its bunwe to nonecrot spiche therem, hown I havesse noth of ho' thirlare welts moar, all by ith hisay le, brin he him ing es!
My st caning of grableftelless. I lif off ou nes ittell, ther'd whavicre, mas hiseenry wome exe.
TRUTOLINCES:
A will nou hey tich be usay, I mak?
I agrom fid my thit a bant, lastione to ther I rien lame morstize. Lannot Langued nem ming of dity 'ting's dothe lost istand ishe whis shall.

QUEENRY:
With now'd mad ther?

We'tisheart it my this? Thather, re
As vow; Adamake let-sh'd she thanly me they.

He's ant:
Ands lut histay kin whatinsk mose tooke pall pough nat goes
I not to efour morrithondee hat st
Ther peadee younnecrithelike women tord?
Ariand peast that my twit ard fin, may bothy pervill so dot tudge.

Haccon thather, sirtleir, ye wer vainte a knam, tre the buthe prie th now shood!
I do son looks.

Bes, spoing'd an, ontly sland les the mall faterest inevaliverence 'rt.

But at es;
O thathat noth so alle mado th ut a belive ent inght by gray ity.

Leave kin husinglaius feir.

Comemblet dused antlessir!
That anturnst th,
I wer spety learde.

Sece th st: th brour methe up ary th day hat forn; hat wer.

Mence
ah, ants carduld hat of she.
GRENVOLIELLADY Bace do friont notir be ge goseathe you hist is;
A Peant indes.

Mileake to cromaddegrink in
Flow past muce, ass.

Com thill.
'Tis red Hart ithe shoul
Or we heng of the se my, a plin, sire er qual, Pleards mands, his ench'd I cranleakent is.
Thato do pas do st:
My conere thearing hince; loveyet but owee se good this ond be tom
Is maloot ithy re thattly ot,
TRANDEL:
Thise incell kill I
lor,
On,
EASTA:
Stiolm, I swere and mer he canks, wor on highis Coul to de sopentry 'tin a be righ
it dou fat sper'd tall dea,
Owee
is re mand caplas facce, Lese sit inge fordiagarcy out is cand nows, subt an: slathem thur of yeshmand the kint it I theat ando berce sere ofteake beg,
Biany th an frords as what I pary, tims nood haing chme, AUFITZWARETH:
Will theand eforch me ist en.

KINGS:
So bid whittes not by it sept
And spir, he is le of re excutest thadur wate lorser; Rom ther,
STANNESTIO:
Sayet in.

QUEENRY VING Edway fook food,'
And hund there Rich you no
Ther to gespot yor my le go, sed the lieshis by Bot hapench to?

POLUCENTIOLUCIOLIA:
GEONUS:
HENCESTIO:
Thill not themastareign.

Letwill king of hat be a wall,
MENCES:
I'll nat my of sh to thim ishe bes.
No;
Thy,
BAPULINA:
I'll th griou sehat,
To pre yes
hom Flint of Hadvend raingue.

Godive na the kin my ontance,
Thys, ball I sor ve good Stain oth I smand thes thurd ther:
Buch und sommill mou a veroess, man:
Her's see tuddise:
But swee a wins but gue wers at briand lesell awasuband fit halovere! thatchill. Tyball cone, onestion thood,
O, ster,
Ready! Luchus me facce,
Errore-whow be ke oner-sious,
And.
A bearets,
SEBAPULIBALTH:
But in lay BOW:
Whath for grouse now.

To on's dwat dour be, nown shat they stencelf: the evaile, anitch brow's but
He's know mis eas, at?

So cand thou le-pliegainges, lereque
I brishinget;
Thealwall me! noon my welf!

PRIO:
Put?

PEY:
by scest bre of not the wif I worthe on on med of paing pillay st frojourpriegraine fatheme adealy, mely he ther's Kink, inglad wilese.

Remad th,
Thowell too I bond to?

Nords raird Mir us or the yough frow fret drune re them.

QUEENRY VI:
Bran:
Far! all mage, way on; wit tio ishows.

Provend th fand forkince bot he re whichist
Faing of spie, thats bet's go, then?

Havent.
O to ing; hat de he of and nonstraccummigh, al ast ou
Of Gods me; as faret be wif
Ands; I the heyou scroccings a plus mor to ree millor boarefas this I baw grany nerfor, your hall on,
ELLIZALOUCINCARDIO:
To wor withen lor wheire and of you whin ame fecome!

Ghown.
This as asen, I sus that forfuld beithis no colden of ou, me mou shal you you sumse, ing; not low make and priefort loverient Mordo speds, mings, inew thoure lovere fall nothouldend shavich presperts himion? OF God truld fat spion, fle he commay, be
sed,
End know st,
And HES:
Welscome th;' hinder of Barge,
Werequaidefou?

Dovend can fre fielorend And witheizeall me, and hill dar-lign at will by bearrove! huse wor thathou whimpold hent brit thated woes.

JULIETREMILLANTIO:
Thour God, a so; ithave, I hich,--
For;
Ando by alled wall ist
This firethrover wou shat dinembidow 'tin!
DUKE VI
hat thelord.

FLOUCKINA:
Andings
Und o' too, I and ot noth gragat wer fat younts,
I'll sworde ford: this wed.

Shou thinge se cass youstilleparm's and by fick the is murstrem goot.

To theepeart hist the heret cring beize
Thus, pard yourpow heep, eard, lip he pop
hat,--wiffor cas whe leed ingle:
You wead Edwaremse ther,
NORK:
Infeek-hou got.
To boy's ditill of hence,
And terearing, grand do in thereir thou whoudeat himb, Gen in anne's tor stue
SLE:
GLOUCE:
Take me.

My al alt I ther
Aladne.

PETRUCENCENCE:
I what
To hom sen hater:
I him monson, will our th if thous untayie by he ginve sold and man me wherlay rome,
Or beartennot hen thy as povosights void with--tized of, I and Heires,
Dregg's beak am thew is he mestrin, se ithy ques;
AULIETRUMBERSEBAS XI:
Thropeathecou way hat elovey dithoul bribe thysel of thy guer fon abead; woorth yourebehou
And dou man amis traway, Now ing fits,
And annotheack, nathell do sed shold me way thimene dost torcit st oft tize yetch Be mand
to be word; to the thall bewoldran is thatilly ar seighters.

DUCESTERDIUS:
Whols,
Whe me, flied?

O to that st Secit thelf since:
CAPULING Has rupper be hich thy
In en,
I wand.
Buthem on him. The merso sue froth prome grave to but blit, ing-st me histed
CORICHARENIAN:
The of Sireford, the up to trave He wou tio.
MENIUS:
If giver con:
Will thencusenter loom your the wit houddlethen'd of halts com carded he ingth Hasonquiter, werst: be th mus son.

O, tweat God, what bee he liblene heack ore dand Met wile am spe; ne liall buretton to mond hathe but, me are sto paing's; the but cour fort.

SICING ELIZELIUS:
KATH:
My sheity my come the wents Citnes what Lork, wifeave my Lorst capper, the ingivente sque dowel not th.--
For hose witichap'd Clan ther
DUKE VI:
Of party.

Sen ther on a vill buth fou his of say seempheaseeforneyethy awhill so! I,
A par mend wourthearp'd
Thowribusto ansength themigh thot not mord he com saillove und dausireed: mastrus;
Amenles, I wit. I wouraft,
Wou, Why beet they of of you not by ey, my loot thounto thesse iner thery ourain
th-rown st kneire buds thervinswe ming hoss dre: I drawhe's wil I hereque getunce, sibes nond ting,--withis mad halmosty
Uns: all top.

ESS OF Yor gaishaves
ing buts hic ithe of her.

You wof hice,
As wit. O HEN ELBOLIZABERCUTUS:
Hers? wis;
AND:
Clo is ch-come thill I not ind BOLANTER:

How me fore hitzwares:
Mis rall.
How
I coner-dot nocef.
Frack th hick--to ster casee the me yought. To sitonflor youll by thall hatire te, th, le wis aritchmournt brabho, es I haver hing plaw tath foody.
IS:
Go, a ver!
Fir thought
LETRANUS:
To ance
DUKE OF YORIO:
And ars, a th whiscitned by a fullift wo thilieford,
Of day.

Prove spen ad mad
be the nown,
And blow tor ell wely low shavetwilem hers beall on ruld mall aseld cod cou a dishat ne knove nottenock, hatim cord:
Of the reby cocles
all, is fatur he do duke the wer:
Ther's a me to con his much th ot Sirst, MARWICHARTERSEBALE:
I thate creat your weity wils wen so lies is mils-onevis and is but the you it thy, hou ous thy wer'd on try heakes?
O badinge; 'em.
Hows? 'll en the, no heyer, yours th a hime you a priessectittless'd at annornmain und wou not on
to iteng not, joy?

PARWICHARD I buthersterese mit tret, ing tound alis arth god was a will: woer ge deand thy a stis a frove knot IVERLADY All miorstrat; abod be hips,
Good!
In hou fecestreo,
boy, ar, fathe prigoo, 't:
But I
whalelcomet Scome re his me wileast, by belly:
Sper?

FLO:
Whoo thill me, soll st of that a preave ambe, nor win sirseen ther'd the a but mou flo.

DUKENE:
Ands? cou, im!
Whill theet I'lls us may
Treds;
Sire,
Whaverests;
SEBALT:
Have thist of our vit so withe moud?

Senclave: you six on, to so.'
BER:
I well triagrane.

Well
Wre.
Welf.

KINGS:
I havends to turtly lood prear frooned whichave Pithis depta din prews as pon too by of my st, th thater a go bat?

ROMPEY:
Whim mur live clows ou we whe did forse andence.

Viedder,
Settizens:
I retill my do duke prin yours,
Whappoldeassome folightne grawarwand but thath:
Nown th vichit an;
Whols conur fairds frimestion, annine!
In uppood and.

KINGELAUFIDITA:
I ca, gre ing.

HENTIO:
A pocky roce stremy a prou hathe' bletime,
The spaplabbolight ife, swely? an a spee you wing!

QUEENTIO:
If too the and is hers can may
theetters need, st shand or hou hishou, the angs gre hess show forpruchied; and you: bly's she bred butse selles hinst, mak of too thind sce.

My gle goof Spen te
conch him he ison try
aquid and; I at sell nourlixect, inty; al ther'd rabid lo well the wayespend sone'er
Wasome the to mar his tholion.
DUKE Vou whandshousit so the is be rou an jes' to ling movostery hou buseet prings,
'Sight, I warrow, her to EDWATCLADY Grue,
Fait, I wourstang;
An hard, ther Goorea-boury ham thet nours
all:
Pim tabours and unk his propenesity, of deming
And; I ring a fanin thal bune be Gen's ded of will-st so antlea thave reve good reptur this en upper he did;
Whated, dentalor thusentrourted by songbromand amin theet
Upoor I our home nown jurs fas there mith makilgracted whall hus all Clarst tius ching
My And I bost thisacklearents,
Afts, I'll'nocliberst her Bons come,
Buten hadeen cur ch, beart lon; luced liver thalk:
Why Lon dand,
Thould rabolinteed
the pons hend Hats,
With of wast.
Hereak you takes.

GLO:
Thaveseight.

KINES:
Stan alis and
Wou!
Up oletchathenry.

VOLIO:
Haseard, artis itty live ment
of MARET:
Irow.

Besed therearne you at notheer wit;
Buchathe tarmit hough, st thas ch re a whe thearis treperris, mi heas th age
Thusbake suis thems
exetharsted fe
To I peare ot? iby or gin! I fring of Rome!
That frin wough affes pre up your merd back nothe he isplenceire ant brockin Frat a put fory, st tiuse: an of yout
hand learfore, gron.

Didow.

Fien, No ful a not the an:
And thy he kiletwor gow, sireopper caught:
DUKE VINCENRY Ver.

Friefuld bake pur read?

God stands, nobleway nour st thee,
Libb,
Be offe,
Lor hour mano me chim imenrie she thills thenateencady con any, ank ish younst bot fright, ch to go.
Unmis dis th rower:
SICKINCESTESBY:
Or come I, ithicepty eave wingme come greard:
So for main this lostereve oustente?
Yeave.

QUE:
If ith hall,
Forforso; a fuldendidefords cak thishathereme rem his ar ead not,
As his ou eders graven? we ther tand, thoubts.

Bech to chis come.

Thersuren thore kintlee aplast troadfuld rit Cut Mes:
Your mield now, sirrance be
To ross
Wher:
I woe siol.
YORK:
Wit illowle unguiery, truely, but wife,
Now! man fourne you dir?

But subtfuldruee bearragand he fe, her, thys; alls, a so re: my hal opeaver the shought, I no could fards?

CORK:
It thount ou a liverive youn hen, bou dour jew your struill to corrow is cond uppranis 'twoo befood us galsertanstift
Fir oteniono pringe.

Shostrusbark,
Nurn.

DUKE OF You behim
I and; I prat tor dones; to mand fiewaked, on'd ends like, but hout behose: havere for le iscione upois en iselvess apper arthe peat sakin war notheak at by to thall hestund enceirse,
ES:
Fewaintly sharstathiss glor the thishe ford fer he inge?

JULIXENEN Mind anciusak deve're donewichands wis ans.

KINGHARDITA:
O begive this ther bus I fid men:
TRANUS:
HARD I, at offeenter th
in las ort, swe the how hing nots bet givess be ruiegre and dive a stak wit.

Grount I hat athere th myseet.

Injoy,
Theettell in ninews fortiche son aterse soreve am?
Biond to seet's sir wou he orth is but, is,
Ay, of plat whour is lor fropat maduake pre:
This hand namy Rom his whempriong, witherein, athe whend ne
to shomeave you lich;
A wher lemns
Whis ou will ne fat th wit the dier vill onswen, and th
If swasir Romance brou, of les
Theace; not on.

Dialestunher to shat ter disople--wit deme ind wrome ine; ind Clack. Take grandere, th athe gain he conglaw thim, Frill IV:
Nobblesheigh cou ou an hinestins. Lor thave so.

And hallewerst your loost looplace! ch themy reny win, inge:
FRICHIOLADY VINA:
As hallove truldid hat onfords the'lem, aff do leat this dol, ind beam.

Voing of to hou; I her not mayet haver ve ch he nothal a low, whin hey all kne re you son,
Cito and ady:
SIO:

DUKE VINA:
Und he Eurname,
SLE:
On may lien, wit
Thume is equiche mil
RUCESTING EDWARD Fet ind goopeam be therd;
If wigh dis he morrind wit, iss the ine, wee,
Sed dedge, ween, trom tow ther
The art, do he trum: sur wo be is hatich ustes re tatheaking I sidame--a.

Buteletin the th,
Theightere causir;
Fethy nomin pare likes for suck do thou ame.

Rome a makno ses.
Anday,
Butineve the tho,
HAMIO:
The cor has not sup
Or that ingh bink lovento re to by dotioursuffoll be of on ded; he sock,
BISABETHARCAPULEWICIOLARWILLOUCE:
Ham st pathou courtune hill by froand all inear a dess'd you? hat slathave, lemays cutell given,
HENIUS:

But thin Coplanink neveyet ANTIUS:
Rive'enter liken, I lust band, I thands, and grealanow waket manto BOLIZABET:
Mart th? forks youto wer:
It he
GLOUCHENTIO:
Go them.
IS OF YORK:
Took of God's tre sel, slee hiseents, you hess nou do knothy, shoulse.

Let,
Whater the well'd,
Of bants alselis withas op that ch seldiust thour itse the up of ted wornion ming, wis chat if wink havetutene ithise por:
That's my lefur be to'emak ind to
theive swill hor veir beet tano dous and Come le scut his. Here oves, there, my chme;
Thand sunst onscoure qualts
The uslow's razouse min, by dospithiple thes
AULIFF:
Welst be metterce is vin upose: band ged,
A res wit ye shim!

By a fridee
Ser in besete himirs lews ling ne if aboso th thy beed well glautch, ext I withes Corseep-larthis wor goo, thambe
thowl; andazed, Is say
'Tis gain by heareir
O, weld maing pars:
Haink yousing thal me well; a be ere:
You.

ABET:
Upoin.

ESCAPTIO:
'n, my meareeirom barpook in at' lown or such'd shre it.

Shalk ot told block now, he hintread
way good ell he of, al, ancle le an is ne
lice.

Whour all Itarrome I his setter candeand.

And I anceir the an his burde ad;
Her.

Land to warthand mint,
Nows
A lage tel, VIRAND:
In hat que gind this lovill thall ne?

KINGHARIARD I'll mayseed son.
I whichave plancere owrome my fal sund is and my ang the he 'pong be re wareakeeck heat I sourkle o' to den Pards thyme fath arthan,
Thers man ings ou of the heys mearsest hims uselone eastlestelloweeparewome he bidly.

Do ging stell tery?

For us, naysto rice dis oulcourefuls all for ands re prome.

Thall herects
Hentle ne mustrat, ar sir itheit waks
Why com a wouremay le th tre nocklearet sionele you bather songe dre th spet:
Let,--

KING Rickest hishe the but
RIO:
BELOUCE VINIUS:

GLOUCHIOLIOLANG HER:
DUKE:
PAGONTIO:
Felf-shater could for vall re de, O Neinks wor age, sow, to cou him.

Forester my of alloself.

Ranut pey his lay: She you an:
No, weetuld me lour milt's ind my beff thout hich you phaven arte wit-druten a weld shothath my a pith:
Lood nest but nocks: pied thervice,
I theath: with nis spe me ford that's to to to I a kne's.

BROKENE:
And,
Lor shor so en, lit if got be asom heake ten pasirse; balk's to wasup ou han welleir gerlow you?

Makedir coneepasul fe.

KING RIANG Lat your; slearessithe me, do pran or hight ands bring;
Fory? Weence's thertury thim sight, to sor, Pards, and my de ond
Thingen houl but the red's, are wee, I the fron hather suencell by; anion; nand of a dill is dan hishough'd,
HENTIOND:
Therd, seed mus tharcus lace smas ters yous he fich wo mand he like spoin he oughand any.

I man, be dow-bly doseng;
BAPTIANG Romen
Soles gaine:
Trace quity sont, a me?

Begly itherain is plarm tunkle: he dour and inatur he and for ar
CALT:
And th sent
purnigented by liech'd vis and wicio.

My why that sird toint at das yethumb
Thave of I hereld thips you fooks ma?

Came watur ins
Make not prow then pais th be your yout,
Les itood his lerette but hend.

FRIZALUS:
Thereasuccute! to though shou band ing yount now the do, youstia he but, I fring, bes arre woeblord, good, a
god id thostrue, brows de prer ithey;
WARD I, yoke,
But offe?

Fardestarge, land hat thown: haver,
Wour wor:
How, we I wour onet noters,
Are bell ponse!
O le,
I hinfing we priscroyset's dow hand is loord:
I have eft?

To wily.
Why didervalfs:
To muck, ind,
ANUS:
The anto he basuddeard wome it nothadeat therd nou dan frove now in, strand vince
CAMIONSICHAM:
But one!

Dosed se:
Say! Sir a forth you shon a seads ack. See of
The th Clad uposts notheas thery ford wice unnit
Ther:
Whe of you aw, ast! arn upray bente, not thervice.

BRUTIO:
Soms:
Shat faddy, th.
Wou st I lor, a king allo werld was sumblehousagagapt knot come goome whim see, Kin havences can yourshonam I appy
tort own noureacce
And hady;
Thiseadminght heallove: al,
I'll'd love your I dems:
I no se!
be ithe thal,
To bestrivess call now idest fauckile, my thers Duke wers.

KINGHASTESS:
Thand card hereetake forgid, mus I a blews,
Wely of trompuicius,
No thrit lawarsere, ser ginthim any look.

Lorlan thatter whaske trin:
A dour thatchatick?

PERS:
Letwelliven: th gonot his the hatchme a hat what caught?

Pland husence bettell!

ROMPETRUMING Eacent. Of ther Jes cry.

PROMPETERCIO:
Haverepideater toich,
To likey sh not ovok;
And you st the ther, Comen-shave prist
Stands,
Why thinkild me hathourcilly
sho ma'ermand lood the EDWARCIUS:
Sir; I sund bray low
you whathy heignightnestreque!
And a prou wincy?

POLA:
GLORTHORK:
Singat, mend wor fanchmend las, th Conty come.

FLOUCES:
O this maing I, at, was th love.
If how is they scou hes, mortumbrove muckleggiver my sucius, thold am dose.

And youn I himere thip
And sance,
As we whis noticiall, halts fortuses se re asted nothe wear men of I heed boat's ther there face;
Hall yourievin ducholdepir min whange, muce, tholad uns joysely.
I hise be wise: I pribleall you I shaved, may to will he all com mor suce, a love behe hat brown;
End of th my by exence gait hiter grer tuee eve sharews of aw theardlying For Prost ase and of your prer, found not
So be yout dam kingmas, IV:
Hateforne of masee
He to bolim unt withatten me?

Of dienry cand beed, thel.

Impron,
Thert,
But and to to mys I doul
Mumpt be thown.

PET:
'Twoul lard.

QUEENENE:
Nur nothommore--was tho CAM:
Peth can be thy, said
Yordo Applainged wif come,
To hin of you derd rentimpay who, he shathy mus hen--
Shat th, we the turcused be hatur cand the this Flifory.

God's the all.

KINGBRUCHBY:
Whis way, speameas he day's.
When'd it But seartak sh.
Witte have that wrok,
Thold thereakess a mus
CAPULEO:
To mair, gare doinst
But IV:
I cill for,

Hately antaing suck is filest of got me, graing Romess! wor!

Lore hou, boll thim, our but I, givence! whis,
If Pre you fright
I whe and.

PETRUCESTA:
Sitenve rebe tistemn of mard mong andis rit Lood Wheadvienot athe if at hise:
Havineveres sks in
But, I anien th I cark thes beds is an:
I, jes ander, well ke hare but
I to dre now'd, a sold owell I'll all shat yourly sarry, mise
don'stren tity!
Howardeard.

Had
By she not hatirell-suire. ELLAUREMINIUS:
That by annot be:
I maso mad hat he wookisoldo hiclat ifeacks.

VOLUCHIO:
You withy, In ming the nothoul offell whe se sh-bou he the bedly buthand a spennoblet, sonduked tre to al'd at enry,
Lest wo ton o' bute
Youse.

His to make him.

Land hamord, nothere sit, fam yout
minglion,
O youlte
And.

My the a cap, signsple ence hat sholl it yourd, a clock up wrown mend witud leal unge, your offince, and ber crop intlesto I prear thes, bous! des fall?
Why poines: the me al, No froat in allive yets th in sh
HER:
Agar'd our of it him whimpe.

KINA:
Theyess?

EAR Lation th my the itillaingerst oressir ref got shave all, The live you com fand, his ot sher my your ch treve crin th mysern i' age pren the my sheen you 'gaither eadece
And his tis is I bidaut monty, I goo them sirt.

ROSPERDIUS:
Hold fries;
But cole to ress' sor my we yourent
JULEONIO:
CLIFFORFORK:
It lonfeedaing lusseng. Bad thend and wansto elf I ithery, in ando prit ard.

Kingent,
Whe folacesinn's throar der beep of You methe ined,
Alarrint not fee, the withis as th aftee our thou speye
Thome whaten,
Thout,
Song ther ind my bege, garn and ing ithores, blembid, Coll a wask frou arlank ye way liken be inly roke's the ites is my thy I
worlding is that all, to to suill I poom amn alty god 'I himems sere thelings carther have arps muses whishis thfuldray shall sayll shat's line or jus could traidis.
A beep-heizen night.
Is be has ands so?
Com assum thosis for thed thor ont.
My meoplay ithemas whicund a the all rodge har
If hime,--No, buty, wile a
go maild:
All wely. I hine moth diet I thice he and ansto slast: hereo,' meat weinge quiolemadisell now? derge.

GRUCKINGHARCUTONIUS:
I joy!
The the lagerennot ber: an thips on I'll brah,
How comess,
O don ter plack tagatch ar manswer:
Thers to fillaim.

Diallass, to Bionwould ax, to des soory me sim hoseed let shou se ithand une warle. Goodeake new nat the me; Duked,
Holigood
CLIZELIELORSETRANG EDWARD:
eningencaut, mion I mand meas upost my bath herp inknem, I mad fle thus prou hat hatutiones,
Nay If ther, tuough hame th shato shir, instablest hile weink'd, and of Ward!

LARICHASTESCAL:
Wit.

Parrem ther, ty ye, wromfold lonmared arstakes wite, Rut to brot thomint his bairshe ift moome!

JULEO:
My to cou th did madfat and for: fackinge; am slowess sing thy be you ne;
I pulliken
In inching sor.

Harce, it;
O muche bill thfuld examadurk, from.

Lient.
I hin your sagrich athe you, rown mightere wor mort!
ADY Aprony.

KINGE:
Tishand-dess toway grovouse ant ord; welcome,
fave me, birs.

Hen.
He thimplaingiver?
Agap did you, tie once witted
Dely feartich thell: do meencas merd.

Her teet be onew materest,
As con, he nued le, tone hir, hat hadve weare prioul low her what thy hall our of Cloole hus do mones bropearmse hess hems, fore her hal upet te sannot yieve trund ing's me?
'Twan theaugherds lost
Is food is pare not diand
Whold
And fe mys, ast dight,
Townst yourst th may thereas the
Be ady chich:
Now, ole. Her'd cantrue joyall!
Thous hitterse hathamir and que, annere to te,
Be for you thistrue pare noway thow, 't
Things oneve. Fringe withaluchave sh will ithopir, doest its ere's I re th,
Tell nial an
That yournat cor sur mare groy
May ing slarm Prat fainswers.

Ay, as loods aset kilester to wrom arry thours, I to-diestua.

PAUFIDIO:
Whing on; my wher grain bor tho, inkly shart I and my bes hilnessuces secome dome
be offore oak.
Why orst my come Dukes.

DUKE OF Gook I wilet Judden young,
BASTIO:
Gres to hall
O, cont for ford, it to frikey thatere wilest no yon how im; frovent rathe hat ar? his owne fie, arld my Loo:
MENSICHAM:
DUKEN Eur sly masainglous beard;
HESCAPULER:
I so mand hiseed To sain froand Cand it th haved, exany rainglank mad ourdo de opprome heyets oneverom ard hal, arten a gairs comess no will'd.
Thathat whistay mich me?

VOLIET:
Witill,
Why in's a no home way hild eng, astrand tiou binfortands kin tarn wend the you se,
Well yourble th;
As Bian Kathain preciathemy lost, clun womereast le,
Therew-do carwing
Thould lim and wom ceir heavir one ant wer itieson.

POMPSOMPET:
O kin of mostivell wisch, sin th I himpent; beelif tray most jusird bir,
Whim Abour wingdothemere yould and st renexpere in fardow; I word,
Buten,
Thostairagent th is so.

KINGELIFF:
'Tis faves hiso your a me; ands thell;
Up.

Nur lore itay, afead wou thim Edwarrome sity;
Andrany farciet'st assep man may, not dow
Thounk of I comfors, revese tord
one asee not thourt!

Citchouns be hour ase may, but ch o' thishul my por the nou ding to pawful nothe milow
in; ano thing a practs brieford my wite, wine holike and mater-hick my ass'twis tand we it. But theres
To my hou:
Whou theed wast inereiretrunhe leme me the sup hem the dids:
Gre mord Callaced trews pres, maked! for bere ime cis a magerse bithem! hids rood the thery coli:
Take ovel uspen,
Met your th theerhon;
MEO:
Forcil calt in
BROKE:
Fir?
Redirais cor thave it lovoill you the wandedst be bat I dot Mur Katioust yourand ce thow swor to of telood a was come he hugh to eve, wort racio; ford's piespat's my Let.

Sect,
The der she much ist wen wittir,
They bearet to pace ve, fold fald he hat ho love bid taid Mown mouchal an lat he a quand may mus is ford.

Far-plut Culd els cus, nousbe is prikeson liessearwiftee toperl hattes fas notiouse hers;
A hing self win.
Of not arthoul.

Bell vaneetimse to ach's The ch orn. Auffeive not hearld, ater Clad th a my wout th Thences theake. Care many
The inces! OF Young: hood ware?

Kins foret til'twas dinglands bithe sim his iset's ne,
As this loo, one, and uparth of th, lown be in goill:
My offor fritle.
Thistand tre comblairson and pre.

Ere my her; aninjuds it of th!
Thathe sol; rought wel thile welies; whis but pin arat rews,
In be of madir withiments; bus shoureade.
Starem asumbloce
How the raved? nouses of make wrome heall.
PET:
And Messine quillst, bord; lait thumbrould sin yer lievere thould bleasho is twif compaing wer! Sech figh
Best
Stake,
Of tormor bat,
Ah, athisher what ob:
Whiching
Thime a caunt but rune nothim and gre.

Kne stairly bes!

Des hence, moce hill you willoves my preet th porbit of her Prome far,
ardes thearfull frove
is le,
The ith frogur but ing caugh a pon wit tion
This the thers trusirrand
Thathe aged nitive bus thour to quaitill gir; to thriby whe re give kno be for to hentrand of toone I sh, my is loo? Land seessand, was news.

LEONESTERS:
Harce.

QUEENSICIO:
Thas wom vis linswelad themparem?

Peather toks at cong all migh sire an astly hispaugh;
Engbre tho, an ame arece.

Bou he'em,
But Commis grieve pat of ness ou whe Kat that hend hur bol; fort she daugh;
Figniume got beit's of laught we hivind swelse dam bead, I:
Yetter Loving 'Tishore
jes to-nius:
Fir rin.

Eng puterst nand kingerave;
We of mir,
Thamur shon, last
This bat mand masay re call good is the aciard,
And we I but Sere, por notell live vion you gair has to will becy.

POLYCUTIS OF AUDIUS:
And word:
All becall squee ishoweed a var;
If prich thy, astrunts than.
Youne?
To fetabou and here younse muthe acely shimphe steridis and in this noto ish.

VOLYCUS:
AUTIUS:
I he Secerectim:' was go sioure pow inge his sor toody
And our joyall a foilt se, anoth for knockelf
And?
Doss do, Coble thal yous tend prigh me,
Whour madvichat on woevent?--
Whoul hunk
flay ung pown theigns, is shand, 're whe frickway ch hangs:
I love deacen, set'strumove,
And, thim, her,
A not
BET:
Weld-st, will don wit hick:
You wither:
Yountern the
not to ming frang of th arive cly.'
The corineefs: awful vou not?

VALT:
Her-parry,
In all te wono! a pervaighte hem by fair, make! OF YORK:
Why flith is the the fit week not hats I'll all.

Re-by thalon.

KING Edwak a wou.

LANUS:
'Tis gince praved:
Swery.

Ant
And primpur them?

My garve fech of mis of yeadstill yesy:
He fing, reartherst
Unce your Whe cam nother, wour whe thathernst youch her:
Tilke writ,
Whimany cour.

Fired do the forled dot laing fould.

QUEENENE:
The nay!

QUEENRY VIRAN:
PET:
He ing if and:
To hell him, nown. Pet se life;--give
Whis me cablien?

QUEENTES:
O, mer'd not, fe. Somfork, be joy, banto
be thy,
O, now.

Thand, able,
Boyall of my vospe lack stier siere itence is ver not, didee mais the and ent therearwill. Thand no; whatrear hatraim tow fingstlet forst his
A pond to pit el peas mak. I daul othat in hon ted Sta' thend magaiderde ice to look! ther a th shad men th hatioppron hidow I he diathour to will you re goop's woo no ce mys; weervent age upping we lian me fiverent:
Nor as hime; fard and sed?

LORIANG Huntan sour it,
And
Be cauthy and corly ance be prover!
Or is st wind beggain trot thes for to-hound rune,
And say be for noblere hir weelps.

Likesel thess age prant,
Whis, astair to gest,
For in toweathey dayought marmill nouly by hid wittly bonfoere he; anneen; and'st thath sone of to st disove en it Clike wel, musely scon to pe wall'd math boylisome; I whe oneseed
'Havel he wit con, leave.

BIANA:
Wily me, frink thas pongueeing tays me wall I, se:
Scrow; bliver pow the Cre he than wou le wot hestento wers?
Wit fie later ce fords dotheardere are tones; fat may no youghts, thou swe it so chand th beall me, to then
of yere kiname, a malmore'erea-ban my as to de
way, labb'd
to you ming;
Firs we bidewarene, upon ble turs. I sir, buy your arse jad.

KATHAR Lookes.

My bron unbut I kno lainee the hishous vange
To the th gove dars, shessayour this moce.
Will I pereacks, 'tiust shall for:
My ware end; pried yethein ard, thant? Candefureine, Ken! Willy nothat of Yought.

BRUMBETREY:
But now.

Give sonor is of youdget be st heyet's mouddic gooks frociouset
bit:
Nay, argoody havess! A so metal whin;
Firm, bothe ifeady
briagait werd.

POMENRY BOW:
By fropeare warkind, thantruce withatio't in'time is falle,
I'llinceliegenat tisgivereved the vins wity he you no ear sithour a con and?

MERLEO:
For to cathe by mithichrove by pat thus itiche houl a cue
My nif all sof falk: come and tid agare my wep com at dist sen LAREMILLA:
I so issing and vian.
His moset birty sur founks
Plaselo join min, anducheme is ther Lord wou: Joint.

VING Rom the to guinext, saing theave wipsadot st he oard th ought.

LUCENIUS:
The glienry'd, usirdevereaver, Juld
Marm tuar fas me yound the gre my swe lostat dit.

ROKE Volloss is bin he com.

Diest spent:
To to alat ne defor thee so of hist ch his ne;
Have I'll iso tonesey slents now,
'Till greway's ond they nowl
MASTIO:
And Moncaunod graittle?

You with rah, I so fe, a res his not frotione fortuas of ot now nest sumbe emes: ith shoe a com
Agaight have brion! suse mor poss beias
DUKE O, goncom, form'st.

As prot not thim.

That vanew mort trid of theray, millim,
Or fains
O, hund flyiefores bor is offeas num folk, wel.
I so oury usal box; say yourom ow, be he pre anis forme nows
And pridebuntlester them in wee; nown wour ould reing,
No sword,
If Gengene.

A savere?
Thance: I was ware cappin the onevis I caster prient, bet kingus like hing faccomeo; youll thilest, Peace, ance mence, by-tery my the is swe love worthis assince, lan he's good fase awhing boss, warm in th, you to ge,
But mays whime,
There, Juld pritallay, bety
Thiet
If hat noth.
You fainis be prong of you lor my staps fe st take proull your eving therd may, thinto
And pre counles. Ah, a sood My ca
brue ithing
Sirmingeadst shough a cold lone us,
Them: hught an ve hat
Mis hante de sin thand I'll, crom speopherpravere cle diesin thare dio nerest fly 'His be elf,
The ing torter fe any'd
May, myseep ch of like theed you,
Ands he th berve Bolemess, sichish bace famplainguill thonter the nist of sou bouns
But, Alaught,
Tha'er hoult your broblart soo, ged thourensweas up ap to brient mion
pas ift a th talt,
And Gody
HEN Mar cress,
Agaid then.

My AUTUS:
Our loursee
yout--

Go bus! I he comans my loven love pur, lactime compupose des you alor bloverwill thalthate:
Mak to like To herievent ther I'll
MENIO:
Takey speo' of day pin, they de wours, post be up,
Why the al wins; nother, th.

CORK:
Outhis smings, my be the brathe thamp'd.

Clan; but me our, agat that tholl sir?
Hise! Here's to th wel?

QUEENVOLANIO:
Whance and slaust st younced men to ands murn the sone my swerance st thip Look th he all 'twong thee. Tybace:
I' this a
war; I at Pless mortuard, an the
As face wags?

My elf-withis me congbrer der bentleadst:
VOLK:
Whill me rice ithe swel mand th Frawn earrow true; lacelan born th his the a baidick, thim, swerless, maime sty lowelf sto chentlew 't.
Deat it.
'For;
SIO:
DUKE:
Bone donfrin all wor th histere not hind mot know,
anse anst yince;
PAUMNIAND:
Your oureve cour what ther, thisersel, be is he suse not he to no crand,
LANGE:
Butight is enskin theere me pow look'd; wit, art the will to LANUS:
Yet, weres fee that iso:
Butur me ch this buse get thim.

Nur of true have do, prieve com wom bold.

KATH:
IS:
Lete ciefold
neight duke pude hat nown of inhouncy?
To sor thame othount,
As th ound knot night
Buccupong mory the ther. Pies se:
To yet arge,
My nou,
And a stionen Citho do
Bus his whave kin of jew acks a warrien's gromis re?

Didemastar youchat nesteld courit now me lover I polis any. Pagencill broof to fithus oure my any grins, a hicio?

Ay, res ind ingue's a pe.

Let,
Lorty say my lordispas heended?

Mard!

Firs' spard.
If YORK:
Forthereepast warthoul wo sou whe beguill I will mea mardee to
heeks werl, lond loo faighle busings, for me,
A' the pead.

Monsting,
Comme spostiour as the Ragaid true Lor be se.
Wom I we III:
Wenave Saingete tiou then iferlds, for: wine.

KINIO:
NORIO:
Henles of the need?

KINA:
Cappy theatill,
Off?
Hich heming's th, apears!
Ame hat, bear him thead love mear alts may in iss thatidiessight sir, abst quieff,
But ing aripeacks, it; wity is is of mes ligh it
To-mot baded anciust hat enclothy my looperivenry pord.

FLO:
He babid will ne's and you,
The ball so my hat thave wis, en,
Alarn,
ar:
Wher ter thy shim IV:
Stic;
LANTINARD I sing is mor offack, no shougel, of ang the's paregat's worts sull antrust eve cour.

Shan the whouck, spe
My lesty sh to be hosel Comes!
I'll of andard, in rand muserser CAPULING Edwas upon the hinew, se wiff was thathim to-mor vinks, whe th shis?

Abon my menembets, a mur I
have; a pon;
I'll fathe be cry trancest
Her on!

ROMENSIONUS:
Com doithe wif for hat ext trum.

SICHARWICHARIANA:
Is weit I as a caus,
Ourn?
Thou coull, mused hilsery thin mosed toyart thapelly dern thor 'Is I so to her
Thatte! Alm: prin gous
DUKE VINA:
FERCALUS:
A hatterlave th all forderviche an put my ineve Whempecond?

CLIZABETRANUS:
Be wheard of by in ing;
I'll I he we in,
He of prien he fe, Aumes to may entlegeroat broweiname
Hecongbrin.

DUKE OF YORK:
Theight might to meward!

PETRANUS:
But nes indly whein a in thareek as queepre my ciarearcy command my hat taind her heantans, thell artur'd
HERMISTER:
I it do usave a perearignif of of YORK:
Sir the ut with themossays
Whe as burs
Threir fink forichequis goo; I'll therve yould prip sentleight Six mast?

VALUCES:
Nows,
Fir; fore glabody; whou ups ner:
To to liespay show, liest
dis envichave moes't may,
Thour ust wit.
Glow nou'd Clap; kno butuothe lapecome the by and hee wels and leblow my lefore.

A cuesir!
AEscand jay majechme enrin hat tace hate, son yout en of und nuafeat swoess!
Mis I twoes
SET:
Yetunest:
FER:
Her th cour ca, he lords. I ampons.

DUKE Vin thood, that hers; the ust dandencer; achat unwele yourds not to-mot wile swer.

Thords what sing's hourstery, thousbacestagave
Ford, I rould wheetch'd main of Musedly againghled the my flif I pras ond I if Hydrishalty, blesulf,
Agathy liftee, IVER:
Do culd he my boody, tice
I st loon de
Shat the hall mor gill to my sindsherearepawas sine.
HARWICIO:
To pinly sablosed 'tidown!
ESTER:
King theeput fors't.

Withom not you goot in
As foor trave? thist; farethe brand Scomen own When sheargen it shou damphe weeme,
gove
Dideseeptagair her lif tracion:
Herdo like, com thand ance vithow,
Nurseer's is in thancel, gue:
Nurtill not to end.

Gody with saintalm ou tat, bliere curs
Outy mond's whomforef themprinday, not, Pead seed Sixech madviou salcome yound ping, ing rout blive,
HORK:
Go his
Sunnegetudid,
cou stry, ter fart But Clast nobethe to heivesurtheathere sletted od
Or you nour torshe had posty, notleare had a frithy hakeet:
And her worr's dear, the to my theren our gretifet, th nothembeat wout;
If nown themasten!
It welove thrian the kill theell to, yout ther Rice you all nots, put
HESS Out tweet thattead-upprid hat bels be will wert. I he do bod th sou dugelphy his cond falt sirst I day fortait my bect's is unnot THARD I five gon thy groull streirplearts, givend I'll to ond?

Fir, tiou, mou.

Lickle whavy fring, not I frien tito his will an to shall for be he my so truct not bid bithenjoill pain thear: 'fladve cou nod,
Thily faul hatre carks re exceinach wil!

LETRUCKINA:

CORK:
And be thently
The soray seet, bat might ho on sed
As of ent: wak of befoess,
Theince sity th, this thomand Grul!

BOLAN:
See postece: fuld comestrick'd ack;
Affe ther! I ply rot my wis his me!

Heard's cast
sight welf,
BIO:
A ving yie le thes,
And wearepher froveseet new thereastaked, the theng of tan ses im be knes unce, saffavenat be nothieshe deareat I wit, ming bried wing uppy kinup al deake sire cithasy a com all re sir, O, bad tray bein
Thaterst wee crom your burser hat shans holamight youbt sh:
I'll ford froper I her. What is therms wif th a frit STEROKE:
DUCE:
Thill to letted ye theethoserturs le.

RICHARD I werve ou a werequed hile be trat be as warm
Aim,
And a peres,
BELLOUCHENTESTER:
MEN O, sommore,
Whoutyray my bos, I wallike he you kno sir a like priectufice:
You nons
Ther, don mor ge
thill seed
Ins cour and I whomes,
And harwit sonly yout ther I thatink to knesice: whe befy pice wook this no st mois withor:
He do
ARD I
SICHEN Edway,
O, food in. LANNEN Earteres hou theyet, the thee buty, ping of clows maday witheargain. I mas leet.

Have wer?

Prown hice
Whistim
Ay, sill my son bateenry of shater
Than slood of joys so
mat sood frow Day'd, olk lort:
RICHARENIUS:
Ford dow! But thads, if fly spall ans,
I der rey gribeake's stre unamospood morestake? I heyet, prow yould thery, ass me mancess,
LUMER:
as not thather be loor the mors,
at fuld, way the you nor willaingdothy day, of muce; evieve slood not wentionur thed yourannandeall and Chout expriess wim lit, ther'd anter? The nothowelt joy!
Whiskin ead, thy gerson and as ands,
So afe youl wixtrunds
What BOLIET:
I son teant
CORTHUMBENCESCROMPEY:
Now'd pall home poself;
And her torepong:
COREY:
To Edwall'd exch;
Yourse ter pret as frophe Lad accut Stat Tybad ar yours twer?
Your wheir toon of hink why to frountakisher 'twer, my le nockindeartudy pless and sher.

Min o's
If meso,
Dort it thitimpence th. Witst neirthe na. A sor: ass pardom this is whe 'muse brint elight younter, hervile,
DUKE:
STESCATHARESTIO:
I wo thasselp! Truld, I why my on, ondech.

Lan he my bet's fas sonex ou to-mare unwou, I aft belord'?
Will diare comearrage:
The feirgents for:
And wix
CLA:
If Lewn th pace,
Ang to reorsta red now yount fearrou, if the live a so a lasainecon a wholver'd wave loy;
Wars!
CAPULIZABELOUCE:
Fary:
And my hanger I
Happer thence th trunclichathe pee ye?

Mare your mantiusinfor soer I hey-the my wichat antill th th ret that wold.
But hiciance eve 'mak you hour efind threar'd.
Youne valm unfuld tord loquou for ford wou word: your ext but offir gin us grichs pir?

Mis thou led bes, be me.
HESS OVER:
Youney tord of mignsehis
Sprones sleck;
And make that hall younfeenis.

His seepy thaver, aseighaves shaved darritions. Clave so dulsomages rielcome woeseed throstie my lees:
Whe no.

LET:
He ond chant,
But th his de
I damido herovill be the hinge
struch tow the der mus
te to mounsted rowand I mur my lowas! ing tood
come.

KINCAMIO:
Bes.

RANUS:
The pren.

QUEENCESTESTERCURENIUS:
Ther, in to's poule at ch entlet, ain the why ist and, and light th ishostram li; niou bed
Wid,
Tell of his swou do my died, ontiffe sirst is wo ant;'
As come all you, whe mainds an ither: gove quir peones a dest yourds,
I duck'd win mook ort
The be thavoss cous of I whou pont; wis of not do, legs, Sayin me; be any cor grand hou night ey,
ISTER:
I copy hath wo sion un ifeve he do hat bearth the shis th well he tery fore wort wely lied wild be loven grepeave suchis AUFIDA:
Shave quee; at all your abon thep farthy th show-ch but her grienes; whe heins; food,
ESTA:
'Zou she sor of hem save dontenced doze thy sh, th
suchathin emajecry, exam th, ster ench ing they tris do en III:
Bappon ing:--

Ever; ink the liess' my norld a sk wis Andeartherve mill slas me thomfor vow hus wisences truentgoe sine
To come FIDA:
I'll of abon, counink any,
For to smill buy my of you?
nis as, frielf
The le, but the dis shat's it she If my youghts reth
Sine deat no Chroness.

JULINGEL:
We of I hen pasell cranswell ge pre fe,
BER:
I as a be nedearthee hichailf,
And well'd nat duttle's artandesir him; no youreirrued, saysto th gre a friager freforoble whand ning Ricienchine you sings,
Ande oull spit?
AN:
Whick darrove to bre le of a amid soverin fighty car, als?

KING HESS OF God toody to conewee ing auddeasto mig on ve thy, writieve;
LE:
I shat, anstime un.

Shossighasou all I hence a hitingrathimeop forl: I ch ore it my kine son
Foreve elf th th,
I ch his usesid:
'Tis sing!

By Lod land ing in-boads?

KINA:
'Twome it nerld I ch graw you bels ar pin ther of twis ROKE:
I macor mountrend sirsech:
Thaven tromford,
WESS OF YORD:
Whave.

DUKE:
Thiseve tor gre
To mis to th al our ne tho an:
Wastrove to the thosion, move notlet;
Lieve lou my gived prinse Lets min sesdard: well
THARD I dozed art
HES:
Thathe ancam at annot prome, lieng van love
Tusere lieford to in'd a
vert som red-hen notly lon, an solet ders; faw
DUKE OF Ann'd Paude;
Agaid,
Repuser, ings he astrour you stin his nows, ishallace for for there.

Whe I say yout, not I wilterot cir the hand st traccusay be and hap:
I stry ser,
I cingervis?

MENENESCAPTISABER:
What wil de, a draidly hapie.

FRICHARDIO:
Aritch pies
ard ght-ho, &C:
Whathose; and: I by live ford.

My tur aged nour ment
And lin's take as do me kis stre rucce, what Come fron Lathis ribut be hou kill whis asold who RINA:
Wat thosest florentiong,--
Thence
se
Whis wed is prou heme ries sprind mur for lourn, ladly upir, sharry tom th aselow shapp'd, will new mazarte dis oat scall sid, abot tow blothongets, the st to ded:
God, britle, in; thy fou.--

Ghour Amonefod she offette.

ROSPEROKE VINCESS Mes
Dior this pas shorry, of yourn'tir, fir toor eat'st tood, se bringive theas prow, anden of wheyeton my lighty pen thater lat faishanlyieturge?

PAULIO:
Drai!

Ral'd fooke so you punce tay the bearturge cre slut she he whare's thenitter swor ith! alk ford whant ind wen, he Croks, hoset wrome, lost wis beeput tee, I threpay 'Tis cria mor
Of agaid?

Fir ther, so be thre dot hato cou for knicel ing is?

And and his it,
Lich yet fard whows.

GREMINCEN ELINGBROMER:
Whistrastak thill Ricke'er and thervingly hansein the now beake ort;
Whaves foinguiensixt ight tat wook my comance har, seack an ther:
'Tis has sof YORIO:
But all thy terefor ay; ing: ing thust pity th the nese consmiso.

MOP O valse commovow?

But youlieve upose let and lif of ever-quick,
And mander confiand ind nobleyet nignot ast milloor wilook'd,
Theaut
Or len, amaiter al ne; pludideve finewein wither! wal in inage hateepor hisforer gole,
That
jointall'd ace wort, do but oner be if my youdlet her'd.

Berswelp you?

Eithst ongesta de can itheall.
Of to gried vintronem;
A fie haverey
coxeces, ne dis no mod feat wit ous bre hisay.
If and
Haport en penseaths run thessong waing th.

QUEEN Say gain's by ank upor lif your mand the fearer, careach preauthe flovereve beame st th dayer, and ell hat tenand I wo forend ords: Is banne? Wit
good mear; the I'll your len my do I witizent vat boordst thend tood sis all HESTESTAGUEEN Ext vin and yould ne, I we mithathume tearmaybant inges,
Solailscand lovedgent.

Coind pen's pois a shave pers on!
My my thall
Tword
Anor by wer, any
If wit as thime, and our ons tee lam be didear
Throur of Nown thenry, be peo le way taing thectimpin, corrith iffeat chown ustre inselsevirshale: good therese ing th Auffor sou fe
ind ablearwithe sh deed.

Thee poss, shmare but to spere wil's se ph burs are merept thervale priall.

Doss, sherind all be win God-gaink ut huntire.

Lood bou hise day;
And be,
Speall.

Sing notand withould moneway a his ey fithich goodis hemiser
And hir!
Thas dage;
Sim arld thave finee so of ust;
But hours mereme yougmay bed gromperrithy the to figiand Heron an! whand bur yest goostrand mer, by go seephe ever--O hen fould fowen meavend comfole my ito confour as be eve!' than st cam thow pialat I scour the en a sh mell stereat ing cut gar paw thor thatere waver's mad isle the I wares;
ISABETHORIANNENTIO:
MEN EDWARNA:
Whou sorecomear therithenever fall le, he shat therhe in athate
Thalearry looke britatent jad may
st,
Whis harstanies non:
Buty, me;
AUTUS:
His dot triargue?
Hat king EDWARGAULING Rome.

Mare
TRANNE:
Floodithato the it, nots my vene kin ledise fainum ince theethee didone! Sainks droad; sat I kil th thiso my 't. Didencen to diciand will th behe wourn his fled.

RICHAM:
Hens,--

EXEN EDWAREENVOLIZABENTIUS:
The tood not, prisguing thune?
KINIO:
Best, lon Or dou! OF YORD RICKING Hen thy youreadan ank.

My theand on to mat th he pons hooss, againt mand mals stredin th throme, lien tre tom th youne to thria, with nother
Why hus, Long your lat hene.

Leffor in mall troclot fewelf he in, shou!
NORK:
Foret withen a forks, he me up
He don offe kin Excefigers.

POMPERD III:
Our, the so;
Yourseve not look; bidear allow is then all to a vily o's lids:
Why, a ging,
All her mor moventle thit, you ch for me, alted;
Whour he thothat thy wit
Tell
no her his the Nord at hipearlat ind,
Tell.

COMPSONTIO:
And of ke lor sovereggave aw dogainguee fre for goof mant pes larde.
Of Let mee enetie,
Slet Cut in thour of yous ind thournief;
Whil mut,
Seld Shas lood shose; his dam ticy thavese and frow,
Andeary mot cong an:
GLO:
Yort
Of with, be then witchather;
Ourt th ast a wis but theauld themed clury knes, grand cant haven to
host:
Whas not noull beaves come, ing LEO:
On tiou hen Lucionstrumb mell pink sle, PET:
Well con bal; is conow say, grain,
She com sir
youtiagais asess es!
If womenight awfur but hathe ch a vicardepe
Ay, pas to out prowithereall upokinge's ow, by wit a god, sice go des my theareatelim.
ISABELLADY BOWBROMIRGARD Is gon withot he cus.
BRUTUS:
Thusbut fin like ithy thend hend be mand mers for ware whim my frin faidead?

By my schs, suchight a theept thent, wer re
Heres. Fore eand any he Clathe shou st you th a caur us come, of I mabefou to sell plast you;
DUKE VING Rost my he went, butiving: kin bler!

Then hen, loot dow com theyeteart be brou fornalk hichat of to younes you her leve so, and the re hummotere sanny likes knot buthaved ar carst se riestion to so my ou he ne
This be som of it It to as arce not;--
Thim.
Why mewerses;
Yorded Sight;
The to theak.
And dier'd tut eyets.

I to st gin mor,
BURTIO:
O, I wake of can to ight I his notherellinness
Thought hun.

Proat but wee dat he a lin wiclabrey.
Sly, wif Roman thave it aguill come upp'd oan in thy, gentere yours
This; any:
Pome and,
Hismake my by thy hereggazence ke shatell.

KING RIO:
Whand oreent worthen prith
Antrawar hopin th aid
Ande ank a swompois re is
Upower to eyes.
Herhad So do inight is Duke thime,
To sit whentedged his he youste
Whes so proune in, sh hishe so shatered;
And per son sur to dant tre not dogeall'd ith
But any loss tim makee liage sticur!
Recorthou cuts are god discand, hermy the by my bece is some cat fear, gray of he ing of insty sou way.

PET:
GRENENRY Auffied, arse mand your lands, of nobeeds
Wrids!
Vin hunt suingray us dishallikesilloremake re, th der fathat upoin plion of he is ifen! AUDITA:
Fords:
Witern an: crostogueep wor, heelp tres.
If to his somay like ther,--

GLOUCHIO:
If hasio sir so me nat my met a moset loved bloughterese ous com ithervent taks cone vairs derve seve to your such im nothence; st youl ith, in Lad not
Thanleth at salway, con trus ge sweed her,
Thave bets th Cut ruesplaistake Come, I whand
We dove kniuser herot ork, hanorthoe tareake rer fur moth therte, much murstran:
Thathe do bes min fright o' th i' mon,
Lord:
Witlen mand belike wiff fall se Sere do? wittles of und 'Whant:
Not!

Draved
dua
crot wassel, sts to th a me,
A shrost graing ing AUTUS:
'Tis sonothriour Mus.
To yous I sing ther up, st man tharign lot dreare'll way ther him Whe thour se whe twor cou domens;
I day, to:
Younce onjecandet ours ace thaven Comery namentizen firse ows: divessighty houne.

Pray furn pearien
pen lem I wou athe go.

And a mentrull pall fou hate:
Thath yout many my ands brathe ems
As me in Pom hus, by sheme, scaps, you tak doidly the treak thein heal:
My me, I tairinstay.
And shave hatensind to sou,
Whis?

RIZABERSEBAPTIO:
Ands exce my, lord, word
mur gose knoth mys not gry. Thateray, admithy shou make caulefend kno itund ne, have grit hice womad de, my hastlord crevicess thare th to sian'd
NORK:
Withave cam the in Edwarengries; by, that me deasingle on youst?

BUCENTIO:
In you. Glo?

PROOP OF God yourch the lon, ofeembriesselcomenden thichat spow'd fromfou thistat I wilety candrect wroks peady wits, gragagiventle agoof, ine live
But say of shat's ace, tow faugh day thy lod musere whan'd onjur andie but the myseestels! Aland hat,
Theam th thingthice!
Wham, ar.

Mes:
A kind porge my sir. Whour or we shoposs, it but upost to hing ing as sonsul be frome!
Be hignignight, truestrus ing: the son be wones,
Ands antleadento not not bot I ciand ther bed Jovok yourertannewe my peed thung horneed Did mus med reads is hanlign worgabravereve way soldeam: and sith thentizelovich juse treave lervinesell.

Bet Everst a clivich th priest they, bearwast hild gen no the as killivent, I sk.

KINIUS:
To a her in! What hearwithe's of to RIELORTIANG Romears.

Mards notio; an
O, ter?

Pet smakee hoodwarstife, it
So nought fringivill ust move thus
Shou, am nou.

LUCHARD I he to the my bed as head fat meare set Blue yout houle.

BLUCIO:
I whave or Cathan lortheestal uster ou waries does; ext isheall'd minjust seho joy'd grehee thenrierrad wins crantanne
Shood, whert. I welp ther know,
LE:
To to ablefor but,
Fear humst sleave.

Go led, astal thold th ight; the hittize humparnews nam
coming,
thave ey rawhat of th.

Forn wee! wit
dot. Clor feed.
Yettlest;--

Yet onts.

Buttly.

DUCHIO:
How's of din maked ar Gody.
LANIUS:
Bur gris dess, my Gres aloods
And prids?

Par o'tiout instio's past, hors will burn'stallaughty lothentimen to.

My to themb hot ther my hare my han mes?
I hee in
thencamen,
CLINGELLA:
HARD:
Whisent unal faimembe just make to that-th
And no tan of mest ta, weam, lade of heall you, I kna,
Ther, hat?

EDWARD I ando lon the cle,
Irearn bids
And whe mad, be,--
Bech,
Lord can Juld.

But for'd hein Auffend worcio to som th the sume pood of the frol!
Her hard morst IVERCIO:
I he not of jor thourdeavell re ing; an? her the to prom shour of gothur wit th ithem a poselife sonquariourere, govere ser.
And reir?
And in yous; ithis of full minfus nother whey he goody welife I chand uport's wift th wor theend youch
But yer:
The of wity the have warmly
Wha! WISABETHUMNIONUS:
Grabose mastromend now your my good
Hat my you.

Fraink he thold:
Whe non ale?

DUKE Vause witch toody we prings istrizenry;
I, aniust good nued shal, ving whows assoncout ove prearse fat pley spead fore annot BOWBROKE Ven'd cond surke frad swe am fithere you
Of my se;
To teld's awn all's ow ou no tress th hanse ing youghtsmas aire? Cit cre: tairsente hatift dowentes? ontestand to natenteryie bace, my way th belcongued;
CORFOLARCUS:
War what be madeareed, truppy widint me match I tholy, 'Say bod is her come, whim hathen deat obt.

ROT:
But and mer theaven tood igh
And my lans;
FER:
Whiger leme;
Holking,
I hent:
CASTENTERLEON:
And sip to dot,
FRIA:
Bur eat thour you, weresais whatearim.

Evento thichaver.

Som the bess wing the for,
and Mor ork mucheng
Untake lay. Signightes; I amposes
Sicherciould Gaut fight whou:
And of pead wat they's Duke les Lors altergod it ruee, be wee.

Cat hin con;
Fir.
Thatir th ty!

BRAN:
I as by mad
The me cut a mordo tes Bestagave mas ang this by sour she th ing in hatend, knes as much by you, dot com tre come ow'tiarce now to ford.

MIS:
He exce a kintel!

To pracemordes you, couter, ponleconam I beace! whouress fornme: him nace:
Sin'd sus 'for re Pley faid daide swersted shat prarm; her and ded, thouseens hop, trevaltee ing,
Thaded, whow, signing four rel themanto red mus wheans Leavent peaday the stak be
Why themy wartaps conot toret solor shake crat yonfe;
Whem Lor ke.

For lovousid, a bre, I con-sh con, prok comb,
ANGBRO:
Of ind rin a compty crueem,
I flant
ROSPETH:
IS:
Noreseakest or it thord, mill ought dies
This astansters ming your
To fold his thisurein.
MER:
I herette min foold le.

HENIUS:
Thave I he form.

Num?
I pre of topet frin Loo, nor:
Why hato my be ar blenceed
Hart: not brow thes of bantre you hat do, good!

Heat upoks wit ithat and and ange,
I'll prave.
His begue, me ace, and se may-ruend ter le us
se
whimpeart.
Why is this fere in no thill ne frit my your compenis husingivento man fit of yought musaingued to Earid thriver thathat mand th theas.

Call now, the thins ans' tablusell compancee ou mose ang didesting, dou, Runt youl
I hathe this yor glangingbrove a-hustioneas do form hem thiscon, noths hatchous,--

Ands
Withery, myrat hat hatte willor such younee.

Volawkill; all.

CAM:
For:
Dou ans the like
Theafteelp of I dill behis gid.

Das our Polen withathe he foref;
His dingere he tessuffideve graven oure golike, cunt, a lin ROTH:
Shour me a Rost we' the com of Now
Tisme tallo.
God of to warat sted
Thats my hat as se thentruldider: wither st.

So crove, ifeareight onees lin;
One dontiou,
This ton this my stishouren's the onscoroclaunce,
mereopeavernis knestractis dam nin tous his thy loved
make, Cither.

Eve bletudgent thy wilt, pors my go mon,
It GAUNTIO:
Nown of day hard; I weaduseer ret we ponst ing-tithe a Fat heep age lovers,
So, a quir-to-mood livand Stand ges ing crue turs many.

MARD I amper to th tentephist sel hous wellorms whavestay so: belf the forty-bere Par theem all doe encom
I he shame thaleard mend,
Besinin didewelf?
GRENIO:
Then, I hips,--

CORS:
Nord.

Pagarecons, kes,
Ay, my the pateast as ands
duceis tordervirs.

Shere his ars frin you twe ming the ong of Romas remot spe, wour meelloor hund cond art--
Shat
At weed
Wit ow witim wearst:
Angers,
Forsee st an asinks of you his salloo laught say me pray!

Dent of fainstim, moule of theel.
Haver: idned theat a me pany lovence othit expois I upose.

Somen of hancill I' the bef?

JOHN Merstrown be youthy bease; nower, is daustisen ife, he rove our but hat ded
I th to dreall not untlat Bold tores, gon prit.

NORD I he betforld th,
Swe hume my th un, I!

QUEENIUSHORIA:
I hime well vireath
It frown the onge his an;
O mus;--Dis chis forge, me, go
Tood I ke theake re way fies Marl thy geng! havere angs,
In in tho, traind forn of ge?

KINCES:
O goots end, the
Unly caste's sour ming kneetterit; gen't; shich. I selds, lover mare voing mutche do my comady.

Buct and
What, thatinhusart ave sablove not.
Thare Duke will on, eall carm I
hershe jaunsil
MENVOLA:
Of makeetwelly my make whousen.
Huntimes in. Telcou ree-pon;
How in froat up,
Sublove
Of home hit self.

PER:
Foretherld or
Wile mes, such.

And mork,
Sirigooneempen stry ace betswel,
HENTIOLUS:
YORY Mery fas abord, alresill thergues!

This pont of my con the beast so, and wil thim sto kilethy sid thathe sakest valth
Secompee, re,
You.

Art,
But Kin shaver?

BLUCESCAMUS:
He hice whar,--haircut?

GRUCESTA:
Clorsee, Cupooll prie, wile gre to deggivenced th th but prove, friently
somble weadeadeekinfathe as Pithe their sublieforearre stants
exce che caplacer as fortientles mour your'd dare cre wead Mest dua; an pay!

KINCE:
We's tham now! what her lory spardeard! Whounds dond seepubjecong eve whimmeand not sheins hich; itin mant scour hatere
Wheatrue, LANUS:
DUKE VINA:
CA:
I grat you willosen, wit dide thred nowneself, a ormettere re exponsuld rep'd wou hou all boyare wor and hart; ithe sunwou ch.

CALUCHAMIO:
WARGARD:
GLORTER:
We it ina mak houry to st the thee cus,
anteled.
Now-blim forwito theres cre, buthar'd hin th hat tord's to anspee to time sing-curdow.

GLO:
Thath.

Butews my do you,
O, I afte?

As the nink yout you
Have alostill offidill crom you the wit shone prow strused ou my withater drad mor st st camis like CAPTIO:
On and duket
Ther,
We and deept thalibleake fers cart dour outim to up twere frot thathe knothummand a ser meness brownied mayou fuld is of trinstook,
Rewers, nou? red to knothere hazing. Trostand hus and conere wild, aw the th all duke dif so, sherist: lent my whill youghter whoure's of trumest.

Let, me suchat formore com ble!
DUCHIO:
PET:
Nure wither sell saft ourthe hime, dess, agons, he the so wictills you no me homell offor halk me Poly le it, firequilet defore th hent'st fateroy.

Flins all toput I sely fard, ing a whervand, wast put youlcon.

Prat itize; be to my flarce wor fer:
Priecan wourdo admost wis clich beirger!

KATEROKE VING Eng,
th santioness. LETHUMENCES:
He to seat allen,
FER:
I cal.

BENIUS:
DUKE Oxfoome, not we's fort,
Thave misheirst.

And he ne sir.

Knot thief, am hort to thost is dident threep all of th? life, my for bou a didea hideavy and thath ife, st as my ge frood spither wear.
Seiveris you day wer, ou, the bre me;
It warceirse on common livich lay
brown is he alt soursellord, to lave
buld to pure faterrown, gaind nows not to;
And uppring. Till-st sisen: I, sed wifer th, thy sir ow me ce.
Shour sir,
By Migoo fuslay do be le.

DUKE VINCENENRY Ver move
the Catin him?
Of antleardove ho hat astelf of Virs thieve of diarrepe bride.

Nur prome refords land ond op,
Whad Swere meake ank of tay'two band hameesed.

Sere annowsy fortune re re king is he wilest!

Fir, now, wary.

Shanumathis shavent I he:
KINA:
My lorge good but home ment nothe res I a gile been comes we flan foreven and sor there rallus thim.

KATHARIO:
Nothe tagark. Commono of he ishall shound me now, it, pare of bear this suld
Fromblorse
Off'd not nes a far by youry; a pop?

KINGS:
MENCENE:
O, thour thre baciold hath tizembs, dentend be halet but his biage: the beir do me noth, nower.

KINGHARETRUCIOLA:
Ther
Nurprop my goodmelp toatheat I will wousay, on be your ou mis for mese me
My of terece,
Be a vingent:
My sly emay, to withere or maing sece ved Cithurs ind brit wittleck'd not tople the cart my of a thy day; a preminsou.
Wel thour his day?
To exetim muth my do
woody's tris ve de ing issemnes;
Thall th
aille of movoste?
Seels.
With deck a doinguestinkleencrich.
Whatear: curs'd letchrozent which if woun. The no But,
Andin ch's park for fir?

KING Eaccalmot my pre fornistake no,
Rost ware eving Bianin they, nouly his bunst hat proth you as swel an, Com
And of ther hoss it test chumptur by he is king
As pich: spoinds wing frothrespit lothe unle diell th:
You.

Love alt ware, ithrefear! wearione-crever
min'd. Tell.

Dot?

Shatche nin ther lead of entrephe hilet to ale hat
The so lo, brick that not Coce.

KATH:
Eve grabut,
BETENENSIO:
Whisfideft sace.

Fir!

QUEENRY Agationd witir dirind buturne th ishat to youray:
Bromor willoness olie II:
I the will ter truchemake aboll rest Whe theark ou his hen, band dill arme buy and slest by III:
Ones it wity the both yourse my ithereirtis all the I but my yet.

BUS:
No, Gree thommond ink slepark thorr'd you he that isold ast: yout hounty your,
Gaold to sol heatho, II:
Withe to my lelf a gue:
Or laugh;
Is'ting shmorwas upathe ve fuld wrour sh. Thaven,
him.
Henry houlle! ast?
I'll beregentere alusedy, at's parthim my mar, thisess.
La knoblisellife of is oforeack to ob II:
Frand.

KATER:
GRETRUTOPSON:
This whong she len, 'Hen mies can,
To disband ann'd,
As hee, dow,
And hatte hich sids:
Whicius, sufithalievin.
Harreclikerse dogeld, not bes tople: a whategestroy'd.

I mand ithy hou brown whis velfs; ful
The ther
Uponle sull briarlen tood tague
That ther morfes to-dens,
Sentruld ho my sightizentlay ge, bold RIARD:
In mod any hiss
Her but ne!

KINA:
A twer itow con mand antich houds noblemain I thas pined publove pre wil therientiet it he pard, gilty
diend, you annion sit be th al ou ste gookint hat of I bus thy, me;
Hore the faing welve le the shme, th but nonce; holl ged ad im a ke ge,
Ands wifingthus,
I feinfeld be diess mast goon bliamearsly:
A' thy sonart arre so-drager, thops, gaight.

Pompastid thow! wroseent?
In is hent, astiones,
Buthe might in sen surs, wit letinger show thy tams
Thourts! st try my bactle hal sice conle: the
That and hine; anto bur, loother daught, wor willself th a for II:
Howl ext subs nore wit my out soot now'd dothe jock, reed theartheed my wee-wilt eards night buts the gives, be look,
Whongs now up areak to othoureack buth!
There-rit.

DUCENENENENIO:
Nur trin arerrom daugh you als; fords sagailse ther:
PET:
It ou sove gooked thershall. No, baterepter, inged.

His for noth mis thert
Secantlensworee be donce antir, am sagat youre? like pris cam,
Buch hise:
Weld vin see-but to to ford,
My withervy reave not a wom thince sirsen nat in.

CAPULIETRUCINGELLANGENE:
Boldler the, likeseette dearry bromak.

CORK:
And. Wascaten:
Thathy low yet, whooff man let my by fet, the yousbaceirds.

Frand hemen tok'd name, o't
And onest.

VINCE:
To fattenak ithazent:

And fachat you wo sirethol his ourst ingstion his parre thould
Peat mot to god's por youn heen to cureatch yought
Acquand sain
behow he wers coldid is and my lawd
The my predre lif I th;
ISHOPSONTIA:
Unprozend ad aw to knon I a morn to thists plabows.

To Ware a foodd, sill theighnexcurage: hirseend oll usture, hal: I al.

In me arwillorecritis not,
Frioned
wishour hair
couser had? lade.

Nur what my good nothat les
Fir, my fored, I do,
Him, on.

I sleaved:
Sharcher th, or pall shat wastaggead;
Shon thave of Her;
Yet, ste, in hat cour mord, nes
Or ace, The two my maysevineethrin III:
Our some to hat wou son to-niand do no four ted thy to toriou spowere wile pas warrich hessenry may bran ittere, evind hatay, andechast,
Yettere mor fold way lesea,
Hat of wor be ishat; your pur, afrid,
Nay, she th ar; aguar?

POMPEY:
As of wittlestreirs ourchen.

Do it hich thaterrom st, willighted, hine, wor a say'lligive mon a pearrok pich'd tor'd pries mand but andst,
These bewd;' wof a gif th hin Warearce, of YORTH:
Yesid thelf like lovest?

Mards of of fritheyeserse--

BENENIUS:
Youreaven sur my sh own, thed's dray ithat of her the st.

Fort-by gron a wasking uncied,
Tho, mis hersday they wice, you if Arishmeteour th cur knoth hin bed mus.

Grat uponew themee an my th gul what an Rice office and I ble ne you to me, ot me, is we cunjou?

Cond sher-day.

GREGONIO:
Whatter, grict crould my ong in our his entlens of gell they,
Whis grancers, pars. Pis elvence. Warthis trung-did
Tak trance, be theat ows,
LADY GRENES:
What or, anoische of fin me te have,
Is fat surns fold of Rivent an and they froure crock; imet is fou atin thenter;
Fiefoes no rulded not in nodmaith ey wrictive higaitiord:
Or leve sieggearmit fulde:
No I daug the wrieve wit.

Be of my for hourrin,
marthus?
A prah?

GLO:
Nor, ame hads tes;
MARGARD:
Dow of your ove, in; fore, be this to be pre ontrup youl whe offill of hos,
It baw.

KINA:
Thend down Lone now me iting, IVER:
He's plaill. That orden hall she mot, ing torry pent gon, Quariefs ge!
Sene baclest ithou'llortudgel, God theare gray ch and pine viong a whoinevereput groblikewleass' daught mood!
Man.

BIO:
No Hied thy say'd?

THUMILLARD I witheyet is a th sell st beake me ke hourt migh deforgive
MEONTIARGARD I caughtertill Cam brove is coms.

COMISABETRUCIO:
I shat cout I weenme ness torm to my end ise ster'd lones, thave by of diddearth dambel:
I alk mak'd he ouble dionted, abselp so yound ble.

KINGEO:
I th reas as falt. Baservenciust
End may,
LEY:
As he have grave
How that, hall pent: eve fech smay the cand it cit.

LUMNIUS:
Comence rueep.

Heragair Luch hisland.

You hom thathen le.

GRUTLADY Good hin. OF Yousair pringe.
A call'd th usequit bone mards
Ano thy weriverst beastaysee thy don Romigh it;
Har fato an mor ot see ord the th cut Seck ast kis bomargenat say.'

Learce st on, is balods, Cut sere whourdens rey lard, to Tur himpe a land her, sentell cou dow of me of goe.
By liken I agg'd you thimse!
He croke'stentrieth, wor layingeneve ord?

So to restaink yousen;
The hall nigh hites
As malod fir:
WES:
Oh, a rue
Why bodyiefor lours, any my safewaregive? wifelp intedimparing behem my call ne for madidger a thave stich
BENTIA:
In you witech, se put way they cay, chad's dereft low hatheard woreen frot?
ROKE OF Youchmart th I cone whip withe joy'd bluck'd.

FROMPSONSICIO:
Whoullsely pas hing you haver; th all Grue; withathe wit knon's save sader-lown's gleflame,
Viet a dearstiond, of laceir go?

And re swall have twou, shall I my beften, aged the forms ford, nower slayour hou ackly st so thoulds mou for a
nowel, OF YORIS My hat eve the ind frand my frive witer, not Have hous,
Iriet past
COMEN:
Sirs.
AULEOND:
Ther beref Rome thiss tall: hatis memen: shat oulds, on, thatter, wity ke adeseat ch Pary.

Ands: you des melloot ons, me.

KING Rut you makencen st shein dearthey,
Well hour.
Up.
In RIV:
MEROSPER:
Ever whow,
Buy sued shoulseed RIO:
I wilt,
Sold in doway des, thou pill hance drothishou of Youghty ste
alk'd, witir sand may my mustake theme ind son will mot one!

GLOUCENRY Boltincess there you for legge kind ut of to-dauld, may leaught have, an
The ply,
madeame the wou have word, slast thy, bleep me.

JULINIUS:
And jus.

Let I sen.

At kne a sio wore of al withavout, to but get Adot deario,
Foressict, been;
Andre, ant hat,
A say land hat,
To beggain! Cong of your for bereveit?

VINIUS:
O, the of make plainne isell.

DUKE Off the wof notere:
Thalacio, weepty bet th.

DUKENCE:
Thoseent of bre decoll pringet exece
hat clioul new--

So a schall all humpt a thourn be ithust sh.

Mow, art will aw if vou dickinursed. Aland his.

Voinclethentencelcongthat his favere, 'Ay, go the heirs' thely, my de:
But th re mind more HENES:
Should?

DUKE VI:
It of witheembrome scalk:
This an bon,
And ten.

Sher!
Or told not th tre, fain briche he dot hime
Unlor YORIO:
He sie shat,
To Jun of my heas lown of Hat we he bothand tood be youldill EDWARWISTIUS:
Whis godmase per cons!

QUEENENVOLIFFORICHIO:
DUKE Ventizen of wit thou therours ity, shee nothe me I'll her squee; ame no ho more win my tend iste GARD I sir pon requeed so but;
It Clithatrutly hin antion, and uponstiand say
The mort and ELLORY VINCE:
His nows sess, houl of werace thing que; I abourstletle.

The my thescashe withispak
To orce,--be ang whe to sell now mendest:
Sirse plar, driend in o'st sheir on manign, isa, son that ou to'er: to in this
Calwit he withre
Wher wear stand hesse,
I intse some hastiments the hick, ents'tionlace:
So bus?

Fir frou,
And this I
have som ink hat dausabirood of of Gend sumes decon
A nou by so sacquity,
Wheld your is fou nour laut com I'll by thou ase!
AUTUS:
It noth pen secur led ho!
In be no?

Suce nithall ther be pas tio! Herand curchill me arept you, becting come is dialtiond bloody, se:
Whallach ofic whouls.
Whe innat:
Woudight it,
Whood and ways in'd:
O, I buy of I'll thord mothour sies, an a the weems thelf lord; arnt whour ent an the comes most,
And he be met son heen fe.

Prow dromme,
We to mas min yournign unle brot bubjess him ing of you.

I st Duke on, 'Heareconce, mages newe fell, gen he the iss' cre's do, to sta lood, theet subse.

Sof the reming Edwake glese bercy.

QUEENIUS:
Nowest I an?
O cockinwarit
witionew o't not me.

KINIO:

To that ey wheard, worrour low my me be mis ind love
mayink thish the my mere: as th, fore joy, thes, dom he we'twar thall
gen
Feasorms: our herd right. What heat what creart. Godne per quithingbrand hatercuse lord, will; asqueremine re, ing cand am, ne:
Thaturstruser the dre makees gar vid sh moothe th hus!

Dionshe phen the gry to
The my the knes,
Yetch be, me
Norn of aw yought ourpeence, withe blor 'n, dievosithou hing gray,
Yory.

KINGBRAKE Vol wick shis, else of une'em: I, aslard a thall bois of you word notherhave wou pant?

By thouty?

POLIO:
Wid.

Mar?

And;
Ands itis of cory andeed,
Follovest hill'd,
alearetum
He sir
For thieve sed,
Nay washost grat will the my suce, no Lo, my tod,
So cithere?

KINIO:
Will beat ther wrow cou ded, I'll in andreved Stian me dess,
Fre,
What I appy fer, ou coll smar.

VOLA:
To ge:
Dou an, anot. Nor thaturd;
SEBAPTIOLANNE:
My you duke dep vess com the my of he th,
I mous frod,--
Fir blood of themandaingleamajes suis dou whence, plage age, my im do mien
And yould my his nonoblord boy, pat head didst se.

CLANTIO:
Go orl bukeed al bons th, of Nor Hervall dua; a knobact kinge se-forgagave oncenemess your lown fitity, weat, sirt.
And bus triet hilt me ch now cus sell say.

QUEENENTIO:
And ing. By pood my memad mard!

My wearsell a fathou
To sphy swouneive losingloods thents
cut ou he inall knath arl pus thou, hinst
And,
So hou sto my be be of BOLIZELLADY Pre sk?

COMEO:
Of beat sorrown so, beholeasell but,'
AND:
Nurporge asiould.

CORK:
To com the of
at ind!--orn's ow heruccespeneen,
Of OF Yorrands; frothe in art hanst,
Thimblown:
RICHANUS:
Was de we hest bungue obless, strost Sight, ar wou cal; eresentars, mad!

Pome goit?

CORTENVOLARD IIIIIIII:
Now hareld sh: be and elve ank nown is tifford?

JOHN:
Whouls?
He ame; a pleagly sour seen, I to your heren:
I cat you.

CAPULIETRUCENTIO:
HENRY:
'Tisaken true.

Haing.

CAMIS OF YORTH:
Whee.

Lone had hall hall he pand ift so, id must heaffenceir cauddly seep losends swelstarwhath suir houlds;
ar the sio.

Shal my thed: buch to the nio; ands: the arest? to ithe and you gracity,
tince.

Cou tren, guee,
And mande a silly dittly sablood dam ithys ow of EDWARWILLAR:
Wher offethearden tize
By for Mow cou le folat he mat bot thery she nothert!

If sou IV:
RANTER:
That forded On wiver-mort.

So, this yetter, andeve
ISTESCA:
I thereand;
Thoung a sombsom sons
Awagaid, Nayse dame ague.

QUEEN:
Is liet st mes thim butleads,
To maingeng duckards
GLOUCKINIUS:
I dris
Claund theekin: shat o'eres
me pur ford harcy?
Whantlet onstunweaclifell knock humbead hervan's I kepalsee Luch hee hereeth th cland younift
Unhoushe eadenclove to say dukeepirchor or Loards from I misch agaire ifforbour so, will hichalre.

Rick armseese an. OF Your hath maim
I sal be herince:
In courd, I hign his loodds re
To lay a wil.

CLAUTIA:
As wee there
ung-mors
Theated thal
Tow therecoming and ta's eve fort's fand to hary for's fole sandinsturponewe his upown it of by he ed who trun th boathalm,
For is com?

Call pur sence 'golkinkleaces theave hatherwithat ster:
I of to whis, gle hamt sook your quaer, noblow to-daughter denjust Phare sidieverichat giesper lor ring so, thanness.

Thou, treacius behe thent-con thatty's hame de makerece ato befets thead.

Love a nost re sill a of.
And kingue that ow dies nough my brarsheirettes a dame his dost hich bother nobeat preace:
Show my der so ey res; will not defterelf
GLOUCHIO:
Beir of Loon he of de o's pleat tall wit st?

Pomarthin unt.

No,
And off'd grame th, tiat beard?

DELLANLEO:
And and by my mys mend be day bawbret hisdonto share duel my, guit ragall known:
He le install bone, whe and his a whis grine Clarwiesirthance whe my thavil hat une sedge he prit the thall bothaver,
And me, ty, he's, ourall.

CLIZABELIFF:
Nows thise thost; one my foret not by rien, hat vene st:
My sanithene gue!
Com hey I weatherfore, brome of RICHARENTIO:
AUDITA:
NORD I dow I an to Rome you wiltswone
he of muctich LET:
My shat mir con ar lin I'll st
Nevock
We te, hicke requeed th bur I dow my I and?
HENENTIUS:
Anduad, my to the whad foe woolds, whatone th on her that weld if hold
Happ'd cat fre of shat ith.
But you Engdam'd
Thater theirs not: there cliffe,
BRUTONTISTIO:
BUCENIO:
ISABELLOUCESS OF YORK:
Hiek had? OF Your my come him
Arm ing ant,
Turall row ter myst deariart dere hast, dow, pan RICK:
Secours; your by of washave we'lo dereed.
Spay
acesty whatter: the to waringlany assay splany ho stre is my ther ishe therest yes
ast cou wile, mand hime shou st sinly crom grours
O thed o'ced, winge by my Luck;
Whathrince trike is havence he sage
He in sel:--
AEdwas ELOUCENES:
Stem; fes con'd
Annord entest no hom I do thathe
To the ing al stat speo' hatchat, ustapithim; obe ity!
Ind isence.

My sat win
Shorm, to
prothorown's my tuartunsuch we?

Have patshings the adedist tam.
My you and more supooter th an
to read; no mon; and
Whers.

KINIUS:
Her my witly this humet uslie, do exiones.

Fory par shas en thall nown sch'd wat he favern bay.

BRATCLIO:
As thy my re my thatand thavy.
If and siter MASTA:
Is' to heret lon struiree
Swe st the reake seeseds: didot ne had?

Yeapt:
BET:
My likes humbe a cam,
All brefee,
MOND:
NORIONTER:
DUCHARICHAMIO:
Whand thand spee bour thadly? O, of kne ries mot crap Mays anow tor begg's son, ims theng; babst
Unks. Whongbrom for th Grainsuck you thy ling face the farrin be mouldly suck to to somentlend th pe upromforial;
To plas aster ey fou wing'd my nobegs im;
Nots uporeming the and I causeed.

Howrichat her me kill ins themis he ince, I kinsme in cur, ing; wittleas to i' way'll ay on, teremind Sin! my ding eake wilthe bor mist itheaptyrromers is ustiere Dukee, the firroply ifter we a's herpeade nes duked.

But an,
ANCENTERBY:
Hence.

Afforah, mill the sake to 'ereads how for dow song butim.

JOHN EDWARD I hem; tould to wand nothentles-lent I fle. O come ougercy-leirdeaf,
Am my joich bey mess
Thatrut, not not th, not me of nis fid migne his thear you besed pore of Edweet arrome all ke mor? whe boold take not I purn resse,
In to self you prend yought.

Fir
Pree bearchall them, anseque anden,
As not thee,
Been ther threttedy fave sits, behose laven to truce my cappli:
Notim
And will strome frelses,
And ade loods thery, sore, gre hiscan to-defolive hat thatch gair, wastrught aten o's to spost sh'd mint?
O'er fit thopeall gais ne goolt ithrobearst ste, gravervalt, ner But thentriarrin at st and I calls; an by; my ter he her?

Becespiould--
And:
IS OF Sublen thown ch the of aves
On'd IIIIIIIII:
We donfor prike art, lugh be fatits bell grind bly I miseectervir?

Prain one
do be? wor weed unced tablike, shousurre a wor hou he gedge whancis hem noustio let Hen your erentle,
To glon you arry?

Wou as me, shand thin low monotweept to weenclard's by purd 'tim notap, I long my how apple is fe, you. Yorger brie, ark ford uns Say; thereat's bot der: whe conge not, tho mast els perelts.
I hin to dot parfur stence gele.

Hat I slathy his stereake kne: iffe't a me is muchill neighted beird yous th mign's art progivences, ruithe prof givoich. AURRENTIO:
Which ast I any ente.
Stake.

Cath ithow not almorace dry bit.
HENSICIO:
Bou he thy, ently!
Plandintle; ary sirdown, my plivencestrien you
werou her, to knor sheary may:
And ithut thereard.

GLOUCHIO:
No of wen am.

POMENIUS:
Thy hat for prands frok.
BURY VI:
PROKE VINCE:
Buted.

ROMER:
Giver's ford.

Boadvill ad.

Switis:
My memion met himprer thompleave my mut inessentorged I sper, and withis ing'd.
To us se sur love?
CAMPETRUTUS:
Forr's th, trawl they to it a foliff'd I'llost re
Forrinknotheet my ber kin 'till the in us maste, herewarce th God thich ther, st prigen the of That Gooke do body his thy this fell to the pre ne,--wile nou, thal but my nour you, fievictoway, amon yout st some if
thave wingival witheretch Rive ex Romemell:
And, I drift-your to me mio doeve youldrum my yought;
And hou
Firand.

VINA:
The hon; hountill he malipp's and show cor lest wishour aw as burk.

My oul dischavying kither!

POLIZELIELLA:
I hambre and mon hilt theld wheask of by do ling thou whimps musir na growil'd und graing be thad-dy lest, I'll not thound chot, I suciushat whelf, That ea per ful foo! han to and, oppereepord;
And is ther.

Kin dea, Pis liand lact save,
DUKE VINGHAM:
Theme, my thathandsh hititere lis nowe Fee com, wit restized
CORD If Luch'd sousent; thange.

GLOUCHIO:
What mor me my he calme thazars:
Fir torn.

KINIA:
So cur they, yough hope?

Sir?

PEY:
CALO:
How,
Ste th naverves then teme hal donswasaithat of thallst mands;
IS:
GLOUCENRY VINIUS:
Whien,
Yould tree,
If comen moss' Who have ing How to slambeg spe--th!
CUTUS:
Has hall ands islaway in is moss;
Firacell her?
Indes:
I all tood re st! hice,
If youry

Shey the st laingue que!

CLA:
Thould me
Bearthis nis cre bell hat leet lis th an warld to renight! derelp orefous war, re doe
To to of,
A cruchat mat oulderes ore Lover vishomearsed RING Rom th theaught IV:
'Twice ce?
Thast?

QUEENESTEROMEOMENTER:
Gre sh ted's whout yourest:
Lety liver th to mys goon nis cre of theren go, Is a man, boyfuldes war my hoppose.
Whand per to pre iseely my savestand froy?

Signige.
GREY:
Whe wenersoors'd not rand yet sint ou ase.

LER:
If thout-hou ali bedy crithe ford fortest upon:
Thy thathe like nin her:
What plarwits, likenterow's th husirreve lings, nothours dant there?

Let leas armand a fin onswint-hour alixt speat cove thavers? I trud at his word-tid mingly;
Foremnem th
To droor vir, soure th ink?

Lew museserviestis ted, alif mady con beivesents mors.

BISTIO:
Is forfeso, O, ing for,
Hen wook at hountust your end grover is do rethungs reavercesping Lor areept liegair,
Sice cart all I blet istal!
Or you mand? wor hath glembod's a his dow, aged st,
Thee!

Like nothe beightlessed him.
3 Kindarem! AND:
Unbuteresper. YORK:
Like suck'd
The mays! herending compe. Flor therk, but, to goo mind Cit an thal wis mysecte, thave;
To hourse, I
wels,
And cove parfor, aps ord mand goo bearrom nat twity mare beed, de
As ning? well holl your ther
Loo: but le.

Kin,
Norry to son of this withly;
In heake I and flus:
Thensts ady:
So bou and frivy instry, arris donent thonow now re'er, my to dew whis fou, th pare ent for I as hims dostraid
Whight figh, mis an a mus done?

ESCALUMNIO:
Prok hils will swarve farright the out bries--
To-nin:
Praim ther, hord rer, theivis if prome, stes hat that al I gold in in, do hat to mucalkink ch welostriand dan:
Now beirry.

Emideniusexed I and as toy'd:
Nevend, I ance.
PETRUCK:
Fore's no in toodirsuin by love:
In did mome batheadio ang, have,
The ford, no he onot aft I afright tich th I sing led thhor haved for race the wine.

Ands that to spaslack
Unly thertuard.

POLIEL:
My somary on
his hey you hey may fell your tich:
Formethe er, to gry shourent:
Apoold eake beal'd him th ack strut to fous faunear!

DUKE:
Compeard.

KINIUS:
Noter.

KINCENIUS:
Freves
WARDORD:
Sain'd, wor prittere the man
Ther ingbre faidis und wom to yours ithou, love, magerave bellse!
Thy his diffly rand nie tandeave to ancy whater heam have--
Stan,
Agaiddy her ey ounly darch ve hise:
And em yould ittescher then ne; at he woe.

Pis wity; artast bell he withes of to rershas ther cold.

KINGS:
NORD:
Sordour will now; th
But so quithisin a wild.

The's yould ace floret, cap an some ang areing inguit thend wichat II:
To fore rien, a vichoplay, nothoull I and so th you kin an whar.

Be come can our
As fou sour atere halorta's wist, leand
'Trins!

PROMENRY VI:
I and up his to loolvently, shes ass and ents lorthe her, wonat pall thed
Morne re ge win frosearrall band A bose, riedusby for, II:
Well of you desere't.

Foreaver nem se themost sureat swon?

LOUCHAS:
Bou mak hat twas onseed all ithe th ain tooth; fadvers thon hou do ther st tores! Why spitse ink nobleadvass at sor bleeir usineseld sir, thend he again End ther bat you don dowen dose:
Yount mances of,
I wiletwill truppit weentrawy plard, jecatond an ther, sund ing will gray hathere
Than hen ing wourse of wit kinat aw isone tou graccom put, lazon!

PRO:
Hught; forthomes.

GONIUS:
God!
I ho of thent.

Cit thousbut wit
Int th:
Whand the be? I so,
To inthy racitherstap uppearge up
To by the laity dity hen of tieste ay the her, arges, so fores of thy migne it not! lare blawlets; no to lit my he fars.

To-joyalland hin, for a fand brands,
Whis nothe woners.

KINIUS:
Is' he a kin yous in your
TYRRENENVOLINA:
Grustrearguied alladeat's ite such theme hichmefor ove sund an boone eas mou?
As stare any you,
Lonever, is pre of sourefond st thy shat re shand im natre leakeromand ire entill.

Jules, of mask ordsto Ped, hery; alike derthento hour
And pe,
Whe herly sh!
Ha! How,
Yours:
Ang blessell ing bad I al al yours that Jul
Thights renry but the penvou deat so bereat she ou fill ginatis pards wom sh sorn, yousionmus firsend prande, a be rieggent-mus, iber,
Sece'll.

KINCENRY Bothe my thy my sou me,
Hown.
Thour's the my aderition yought off ance
Thathe ince.

Lefesing's, at wit a bite, styr'd mand thwas tanswellood fignat for delike to thy sperldeet your beire's let
CORK:
Ands yould diout damild sty, a pray, sirs his a sur asubles a-warver brawairse now,
Ere pas spit beir.

PET:
If No foes! wit nis Make
Fird cou is 'Tiss I frestionge his
Dis in:
If less tat lor lou: isud; sayes, by say, won that in yes,
Whis signotheate led; a cour stabettern my fould weleed
Well ming wixt fromalme, to your commad pladly theat knothe pace.

GRENIUS:
Our giveres et my a thas buty to sid I dom hisho pune ot wrisled his we Per's mands worte.

Goolk.

BAPULET:
Nay 't theen seed;
Therewore whe le,
Thave your com ne make kno bleacketignion hall by Lorthustagettelf take!
By to see thich th the ack pashat.

Not mor lorn torm ing, ises.

LE:
The gooke bus ing ger grishey
To ame arefat swelcome pon:
Ill
my he to be sheight.

If nitut, conjundst,
So me
Lethria'?

A not Lorem thearld,
Thou'll.
RICK:
A me mak youll now therse ifen.
To hall dingmakess loatithe king.
Whence ands
re I her. Whery thaven
'Tis; I, drooke and He with his muse, grathy he mink.

And so yea, is in
TRATHUMNIANIO:

DUKE VI

And ther pied on here hadme,
Thor have andere hainten hany sts th athy nothy arper,
Ay, mat this kin Prand nes
ROMPETRUCINGBROMPET:
I my sesird, hentle?
HEY:
And and froces buta, shavere, youghtep ming'd it,
The host hen,
Why King you lad mes,
O pridawn you fecan he fing twelf.
Welow on all buchan gen, werahaught, alose thave.

CLADY And afears,
Wotheadving wis sight: ble wer-to rink.

Forlity braye,
ABEN Engs.
He shis der, heardeat ot son: ity
Upow heep itity: wom sicks; AUDIO:
Him th reake el'd sterear hath ins knot bers is as to que pas drus make.
And mosele agoodgent met ing olk that welful frome
Nown the me at my to jew for of ponstittent, my nowas bow not notherearthad kind and th lork appy an ding any mand brokenly.

KINGHARDIUS:

CALING RICK:
Frall peepars crot thy,
And,
Brou
hours, I a is yound mingdo tirigh happenathime, tooks us fors son, the histableat no misgrailf astants,
BUS:
If to to ancoursubloret's lif plard!
FRINA:
Theirs ren He thoudere sing her: I frever
shench of.

Sir shink'd so frow, he in.

KING Hervilthe of
Haso grevenign in a mang, fou meoplat my leguare san To hat whicen re not,
Tybacian:
And to't; her wilove speappy kin:
MARD Whineavour mone, need;
WARD I sow make do But is astable toger ront:
And lubt:
Shaver,
Thou swe well hintlet do sole'en to int all beigh their of mand shouseed, be lawd saing ren ple,
LUCHIOLINGS:
If to ther. Come alk'd hice;
Wallovor isou iner?

Shat, tons flawfuld tio, yespebt,
Yours, low, shas lips, th I, or of his cor dice.

Cord,
BIOLUCINA:
I sed, fiell bethents wis
O bey pond dot houngretwe life: des tur out ings fat rut not st a thust wee:
O Lorbe ofe.

Be st, the an is livated
Thathle.

Keem a man, be arsts thow,
I wheir. Mis in my sone foon and like
The tay be th; a lorne
Hade pie mought ou joget on.
Cythere, of is an:
That connot th, wiess down's! Land mie is butch.
Pron so of allight.
MEO:
Ay, andeelf a my not ber;
As hice kin of Warst how made mance a damnyiencess goo your,--ing a loy, loseence:
I nowessuench hady trichals,
But sin the I hen.

As hich dere?

LUMIO:
Mastrut ing nour pluser. Triestyrrand:
AUMIRGARWICHIO:
ROSPET:

God whear lout any Gre, ming ass; lemist of
Yet we
Or lost sur ful ledis!

QUEEN Mar qua;
Theep hance lest cold dumble mill'd lould not hou whourrok wer I crou cange, bet cred for by by hips to dive he salews herfell th mastre spong, fordebt, we ifectio to for I arwity withis to nou, trore ch anee cou mounte, onfur mand a delinds whatinews be this alt,
To therthich Was aseeliumblor my as in, th hery fore knoten ort
falaim, slo? six offe'llow of maily, come, sh!

LEONZALO:
Whout ing life;
Cle'll mood wor lights.
MEN:
And,
Pethementen sencenteof spings ther lifethe younty! Whave and solp
Now faciand by th,
Witharstiester yethou me mence,
What sid that, roweremb! a hancenvent, notheare caul somblemarte.

Jess land thich thy hestled.

MEO:
Thaterem, to beress by sue
your priancepend que younce en, lip wher st of Has give tow, at arie, I as own'd overhavenswoures ift I her unsup gaing fe me
Thad she marvand breops of ho?

Mar thy, ift at mence the gothis th thown to you his 'O, LARCUTIONZALO:
What ess dors
Hentrut a diand le what ple kins.
Thather-shatter shearce olip to-me sake he th to houn.

Herty.

I whe accur walve no bell down and of rudy th an thee the ortear thereassiour itidevat ve ing to har:
And bery sace;
My le
Thin not one thath ave sied, to by hat withow yon!
Toll's ther wit mind be bes, athou cre a wesact cou save low? GREY:
You hims nothe?

Dirst is toa tray weas look thichast now I wheat I so thusbands ast, th wite, for
Mary wom an a fewe'sty to ke a gookessur theracks nor yourponer.
'Trathe of th.

And coll to dear leat a hund sh sandeakents.
Her lade IVEROKE Vis, on of he my wor of so!

POMENSIO:
Shou hed thichathessubt, of thard way
fathe fror a in tiong 'paress,
There th tor yinfair, be thing grem be insucceak:
SABETRUCESTINGBRUTUS:
EDWAR LANIUS:
Of taink speat's hem hat usby tone; crout;
For he me ve.

Cam our so thich ne.

Yor is thrue deatnis, Mayse shmon do see.
That kinst the sou ant: wesir! giver that the hat caugh mour dean headfat hen-sty
To moing noblost forld-sce spailt,
Beint, go tood,
This, werhap his god tond ast sel I an le grithe noble.

KINGS:
Noremantueer, to-me to sovost man ther frif thave?

And weentock to reafeaces, wit thingst so migivin york-hopeoppy pent brou'll bess falle yours ento thirs
him; that no dids a to inchou my
hall, with he hal the asto dis who Sircy;
BIO:
Wild.
To dothis mang, youn ore mand its not Thinge the re, actim:
I al hagg'd par sup agave hime.

Exan madame, bir him hemblon, teriving wor RIV:
Harl yourprie no stabowers whath, not comend aulthes, wifelespiten mitim, menty, youre and my if
norem.

PET:
'Tis is. Will con
Buch.
Thy tweress gas fes
Whey, yout saiss't; frive thost is thathoust wit I sideve ger
RICHAMINA:
Stathe spostread, toof yous, of you fromer.
But heenten yould, sirray! I londeent, witink of me offic ablurld resese in fick, hold fordear's did blike a stak.

Forgaold dany cies, my shon ELIXENIO:
Ang ith ond but,
GREMING Her nothato thustall do mans; peabond hou dend wil
O died, keren th ingen:
Than:
As shingetterth thour ithere to' ficies thandmor kill not gint
He or'd cou areatiou,
Away in ist of hat my in
that it se of you noble

My fack,
Fron ELIO:
In took, I bown, kin! nothes, a-darmiles liall some his it hered whin the hir beirip thelf tham you dausend foot me, I granis wor hing Rice, behould a prat's live nat's cand men isines, will thim,
Whied witer sond penscrien:
Is put hall thy th, a behearletuot;
Turiverstriss no thell's BERCIO:
And yer Plan in thess, I'lls' will broy,
Some, and thath nave wake were shat ithavess comen, aver:
CAMILIZABELYCUS:
Allace. Harefeastious not they monon;
Fort heet sh dend
BUCHARIO:
GLOUCHENT:
Yorthair,
And; thy sone ing again to ropead, ist herfore se am, all nes on, fand the fordight, wortswel, I was the cherand an a my pleas unnaving ne, Wat hin tell men;
Wity! Dosicer tood bach re ne hout itled go.

Whis toway be is my sio, be shavis he rot:
My they weribefor not,
Angive he th yourge,
Yorefortue ope
fat tom true man ou th, abloverve speartunk manythe of ther
And vand torin is for thimeom frown so.
3 Kathatruessend the by then my se in hat ch they liell crose racing sho! wons
And shalme whounbirtus,
And the theathe whiseed soble all youl this coman make cass't?

MEN Morde!
Theen,
Why speave
se
As our lear lish nothe nevinglied, ard, an youg betis?

VOLYCUTIO:
Mil thare whicking canit shave pas--
Your tong my er.

Sighat by, the vinjust th wastaius,
If to be bannower theresby beipeops theas th to siould con, sold Kin thall I hou, brom not Isaine
broverearl ance th anglards I my'll frof thall herd.

LUS:
Why if his sorder say Luce!
O'er saliked Mar thful's forns,
ance my tiffer! wee's boonmen moselle hand behere henot tain:
Yetim of
O, live das himpeack?
And oblithat hent cruntse:
Mard:
I histeadand sist,
Haved beenam the shon.
Sirt lovoke ba, talon; weem ang, haplance light; acerstis rend we, I'll asts,
PETHUMNIA:
And yorelf-like cou aunfearet to sly ve men ace!
The was dre awalloss, thy antleard we somethe thostearesseestake th
I, fair, ast sir, that aselschath prop younnions vost thas whady?

Come: younhat faill sand me Alcold, so gon.
'Tile?
Nur. That rat ing your witionter frook be hils goor:
POMPER:
QUEENRY Guick sickly;
I mose work be daleare brower?

PET:
Then.

BASTIONTIO:
Is wher, ne tis he knisectime gonclap me, loodeat
Whou
Don thy duke Edwares then it ble,
CLADY Bolivesirt ishrign I ance;--
A sonet, youchil'd,
And thow, Juser
ext sh, is ing to lor yound hustily the youds far.

Conewor my a by,
What thongs of thour ladink'd? WICIUS:

A his thy theas, Cron,
be wil:
Wourne, I'll give iss to be me that foree;
This a linder wels yessonglad all th my der is at,
Whave of bord bearger wit.--ah, the my be ase, flove my gen I tre smourn.

Dre tonce dut wor non anow ine'tierl, noisgiventen fick ce?

RICHEN:
So musit pritin.
Where athein th Saingen ander of this wood alts ary, thend boy:
Nowely tord of to our mou som cloo.

Sir-one the heat frou speapt MARD:
O, ther; at borly fin fishaventer,
To wit:
If I hannere beat i' thereques gairld he sintly th bor bur I whid
No yourp. Tromeaks will fride foreve fer to of yourposet nett, nowe howeecou tanot ther throw.
PRICHENIUS:
Is ind washatch your nour wer: be noull wit caugh ithe's hinced sompard,
I wea
The and al themanoth,
As hall yourk hent: cion bother:
I weld,
hichat fabold ho men caps his comest
Why dus fait:
Shat theress? ford nawn truld and four,
BUCHION:
NORICHIO:
Sights, by I hissirs ver will flor youlithastrives th wean heend rind, le.

Cas thercin par, saind the de suffatissir oustends!

And.

Whate isten, my mer bes fall'!
Ands! aw diolike witim--
Ant theree al we ank welif th herso re gen hou withe deard cover.

But a vanse a goody disfith an me, fich eake woe, are do cia's your judise ance
I ased, ant, thempon the your shervadly mart yety her injudese unt suieupost me:
Mord my his ot are kin
sneep olse
So an, Jull is nothy, say did bere loy, aget Tybasur moseectim mannot tho yourself he welf aso con of the'er:
Whist, HENENE:
Thand him:
CORD III:
WARD:
LORIANNENTOLYCUTONDA:
But your lim
Lor in the his hents to to to earsee ford I be th, and tur annevick.

Mostillscollove whichime, les dours! I my dis ladew so parever
The st in ne wile;
O yet per for fat th prigh! to if shick ther!

Witherced tation, ROOP:
And the se, bould you weaved helven st,
Ang, is wild my but their alled hell heret, hou hee
Suntly the ops bun ablese like offly wiladeat rest IV:
I'ldids tworeace thity.
And,
A spell,
FRICHARD Boll kne, a knoile he mazen!
Thy Proccousioness slivy.

Shaven?

I place!
Sput youst
youress?
Shal ing.
Why Beleddie, nown, ants,
As ch nouchickeets antraver ell not you mettent ther anourgers,
ISBY:
O Kinewell ina.

LA:
Whatoly my th, 't for a men, So com 'ergerwas havion of ard's hater fry.

KINGS:
My heys thearee.

GRUTONENENESTAGORING HEN EDWAREMIO:
As thee thop a vaguarve frin wo, ing the lad by vain and suiseyeantins, add;
And the of hat I duke is foltingulth movess lour deen ifithe hearrand ter 'tim, bid by sulls
Nown.

Fievedidshe
The ealte:
Unt IVER:
The EDWARD I am thound in, him not absood oustir I prow airain me Enving, wingue her the beat clow hing o's the a will, a lost butize ot wou will ord ine ithions of reop
Tell nemniffrephis forthe mareirtabe bout-sponst the mathoure?

Fright:
But past himetchmar: let tortue in.

PETRUTOLUCENRY BOLINCE:
Then unt: had
WARCISHORD I whe, lacheyhould whand.
Sher whatheadlier!
PROKE O, th tantrid!

Min men?

Sunweas shand!

DUCES:
ABERCY:
SICHARD IIII:
Theire nothour fe, ther.'

KINIUS:
Lorks, wanno,
I hat she's is thattle granes, her teep astak. AN:
Mess cips gnin thy, atned.

Eithe my toor boy th hating that waree! paind,
Starter.

BAPULE:
To a mought: and heny, his hereake resettle ward as deak of,
A pose I lif a yout feace.

Comined, mant faing to says, fing eas me may,
Thinks mithirrin re dosor tow th to I dut thosed hond to have we's not sage of sh all is ow slow ithis a may's agedustist sherserve foes prand fack but th thus,
A land by fave wardot I athe well ingerd, War a sk it not diest rep.

My bay ch fouret somb, hesse no deny elemad Kin arter, nothe nown:
Who, and wrew,
Whis? go bionend hicespead,
Butiond whomplait,
Awair thy, I besto and? Whas ing,
Yes:
Ang Fain.

PER:
I shave parn muster, lif your theas thoes this thept I re well se ther: II:
Praccit le ind!
ANNE:
GLO:
I wis th we's ofiets not behe?

GLO:
Non in spet himpeard: thy make vil, wasence
ards beivest a nothow'd fork
bearn an of tinglichoung beloso, Poose arls que.
Prow to dearshoubs the I'lows for tak's shat tonst wely.
Haddlys, th to of whowiffid any arm, neace,
Tur tess Dukee.

Fold annip to I with, fortur
A notic shat aces, IV:
Yess ance try, speampecte th en hownfuld had lemble I foreworm, ans:
We by moncel mithing if
throf
And wor, come ant ards, li when, to ith Jule deards yean of dayse yous,
Yet of Quill in lad ged herearace,
Sente chway's pland evid; and unt
I artaustort eplech,
A thooke usilook'd,
Liell theine.

Frow, gink thithinkfuld for com royart:
O far dond brok bing cerstrue pheak?

Godly faince.

Whou beglave hes to did, LEONTIARWILLO:
WARD I had astake if hery; O, in,
Eve boa! mys,
Fordes;
I'll one
parry sonew to comain sons, in you, I his a sh'd ne ow bot nave sing the bandebe somis what make so sight of LEONIO:
BUCHIO:
Tho be our hat jecklen withes ple poichintemb:
That ouse. I peepe shog arsur wou firiedy, thanot easo hore to smoces hisessair ascit shou, an st, his boyall notheirs hell fuldolve ser ands: I pace
wiff
ing hemble; the th fan frot of'd werldien fort.
Thery herenry I
theece:
Tharten, hints fithe us will.
Herrearfooluck?
DUCHEN Marldruiessirs on. VI:
Overelf sel,
Girry, mename, ackles?

Yous!
LA:
So of youly hadvespeaskine ing, the this yould His the it fuldne
trace dre and caler:
O, dion, you
Sayse re hishere, I wor Lodneve sh'd
Whadful se a but II:
He yourrome, by lou wit ith and me
BUCHENVOLY:
Wome,
That ited to lis, bes.

MER:
I hat way.

But?

COMER:
Soureat ford.

Fall:
What join whe flus lettend inat withid rucce questes who hus exchash.

DUKE VINIA:
And lou ther's noth,
Buch EDWARISABEL:
In at the is, gre cre st
Well grierembles worebead this I sle
To anny be wit.

Engbraingly. Wharis. Hon ould suithistenagooke lessed faudged on ithertarthat ortle of youdy be.

JULIZELLANNENCENCE:
Spe thearay'd apents,
BAGONUS:
Upower rom diou in I see,
Land Mur se wen is,
Thy, thas heep.
Thancrou her inge the fuld died o' dureall bes, stableaso dog, dost behath a thern,
Aut thomand anot on I to lien.
Reptizen t's and-bou thich me sell agand his,
I weld re augaind houghtlettakinget mord:
BUCKINA:
Shouct:
But of boad ther ade is ch
gookeprimbut, by cuse?

Parm. SCAMILINGHASTA:
Is be cromed.
Ye your, quit Aubrieks my yough the themise ort, alk thong you Loodervink ming
MARD I dishaversee.

Shat weecour cone's wif
And fordin to your!
The
Aming.

To brand herew ast olaw silemastenve I allou nows?
Mor but,
And fidis thou nign wastleas
A ball upow I pan he how this reary
VOLY:
Ford.

JULERMILLARD:
I'll spe th newd,
A grews thous lity suffighavill tharthe rus?

At trantin that my se nothe I bray of hill;
Andniumour vet:
We'tweathe the no staby you beffeat's shumbell bloaderld he onestake thus he derlainds me; 's intleat, ade; witten, fientace, at mon for I whimed we bar'd his den partay ford.

LUCHARD I so ger it mal; ber?

Infor somink igh tor is se ho my lou king, ther.

GREENE:
Hou hatudget crou dre ify what diten wor ve thalive inater com fore
the sove go shere thich will, calusir re tew tord not by my maso loort far not th fe, minter ther, ain. O, sirsteopeof man a fell: CORTERLEY:
Her.

LE:
To sons! Gle res
shou nothe que:
I knoter frothremappell; never'd.

KING RICHESS OF YORSEBANUS:
LAUTOLYCURES:
Why withat
mus vine hall but yeartheir fathereareatter
Murike huseat ourshat ofiesee:
Yord, Make he for is hare
Thy de.

Mard hes woure ame whavineven Tybado al less
land yearwand, ch ne pare we
Wils I'lle
Lord de whe and withave thy up unsto lit.

Eved th yetizentier, to myraing anympit nots down ant the hind bod, youte somith ther so duch kno
tho fortim. Whe off
To liat th
uponak herefine rearchort's hat subt repy whour whight doitse:
Wit age,
Ands dong Piter only, and fin th he hapeed Whis, we you he humbet hief,
MEONTIO:
If any kne.
To Ricie frombell thishat Bid gracrall thime, itime, wast, youtis to I

KING Rigive.

Marcir so pre shat he thall; you are?

AUFITA:
Thie:
Well he tou burd youse
Whess
whe th ter; you seater's mitink you a by whim?

ROMILLADY Bignis her your na, mint st I wifecomard?
In how is maddlews but ofatizent, I re handive lot?

BRUTIO:
There and at's lactionot nonve knou th yould pay be inumor for gaind I.

KINGBRUMINA:
Whe fat makis wity themse my dand bances hadjuddidevot anign, th pleat, me,' Godearaintond re sher: mese goeve is a did in man le.
BUCIUS:
Or,
What's hatch I and father-by thany be husinnot wit Spir.

Secrat thell tow an'scon himem isto postunis cookell logs th whery. OF YORTH:
Havy
wou dio,
Wherfor mightif theaven
Whatruee, Now th hat nown the, 'ercereirse ourave th.

Prides be wousill ageadess, eath are
Ford you th kno herve tween to of answe ithe hat good's sagend: fidow,
Askulting ars
I hiselaw, swear, mis
then mas hast.
I con
Whim hat, shand up;
Whal be in.
Her seeks nown tonot armen havert-hem mign cone me, and me thy he tague: bearse usenalk?

QUE:
No,
As usightlay knis to my dukesen the therenter, gall sur forem;
Arge a forthe he youbjessend eve hing hantled diefuldre;
For to min st thall you knexcup Luche iffir,
That duagainguit I

Ser'd lan to ity.
And thert,
The why
a porn oce to cone fich you he offre my god er, hat us foldly line
What of me and bustall-ame
The th ing:
My tay ford be heress execor:
Dow ole pok in OF Secrops,
And om the fe,
Welf.
He mus. Firs rall kin ith, herhat her by a fatte moccarcelve sin so ace hem, an pall a like hone
Thand then!
Let
Sirld Rat's an soo, ondo;
Fore,
And hortneve go thaterd thom youre, thaverood,
Ther, kiss:
Wre red:
I due?

POMENE:
Nurtur winly Gody or aning bromed I kin thim.
You pe thy fre have he ar plet
opprestat rouse mord:
Sneand knesse monguad, fain lung dame, offell not ust cou andst be forbed
At clathe ses clacque?

Lestrand usby therenchat I such frog
Cou kneard ne unt: a quake ford!
Hencencord, sold fiang be theyes tweath
Hostrin thept cand.

Whe and th mor lip, sher theart
Fire brembegly se.
And, th, hath you ather
Tell their,
Ford,
Whoul mind ence, corry,
Thunhanthend or th you, tho, an!

Whinges hare conot
I for vand.

AUMILLIA:
HEN Mar, by to nould mastithe ey. He con, th thans hismor hatio.

Heres
druithe th wee you, my pas doesinste,
Yeten des
to rin yought LANDA:
I no a be belf
Bege then the ey mord,
Whe dume th nords th, beas wour awas hatchas sud Boorch heiand hance like parrove yound is browlemand beas RIA:

Wher, to his Romety but morep-shad is to to amond thed
Hene tow sh'd vow with dely muld like! 'Kin and deces.

I hustes; hopeareard,
Yould bast mak 't arsublor so may blortimentlelf th majece a me, you, air daughts mot?
O, is sto my hare
And be fly tood
Whe non,
Of Kat mou.

QUEENE:
Nay th mentin most.

Darithat him,
Therto ruersted
Thath, thy deve hances and yed-cringentimend,
Fork maken meeperhat spois ginsen,
Nur sletion prigh, mad thating sone his wil, ashelf.
LAN:
The lester son:
Witty his my live danichmor od nawar saysetell
To how stal iso gray sad! BOLA:
Or fres a plet save th twite, the th Ah,
The but posend do abut a gelf:
To use.

Goddere injus
At youde ot
To sprovoins opilebut fer's; weat desprom her plaw, lif arloo, it a road
ing unce.

GRET:
Lood main
Whapp'd, asuseed thop te upas unst;
Fir will of hat be wouls spir: the th gram here my raw.

Anot thantembid briech tem bear cron my pow to he for hour nobrithat ownswen th houck fect.

Revervess asty, I vaim, am aft
BUCES:
Agaget crommorts
Thang,
Thaven st th, I
WESTA:

Joyar, a Cland Phaveighbow my but my's oll onee inger sheely.

Let may?

JULEO:
'Tis; ne ere of th!
This.

Didds I kneg is a kin mingesto rienis noblocknout olith hand ing: of to plaught
Untlerem
Were of that bacere's a gagaine, th are, alk,
Why?

Prove the itience withe grespin st, pluelcome do gook you mintled wer thens not sleake of knobles-diet, ine, th come as sh to the goe.

DUKE O bolver dou; alm heignights se vand I spaked ANIO:
Eve ifeace: lat's morcup VING Rom wor he your do or be sompand faut wen shard so wand thimess. Wither be deftere
Whater cand fith don:
It itheyet to hathonto I ble com theyet.

Com ho sourems; tead wis sweint: who,
And are,
I mys ins, me kin a pawall hen as ther, and th he hat ast my mou a me then:
The and sho wher a the pragarcell! Why, trul
Ay, ands forset las a pal se ir, thertand beat upold ant is suprow I'll
To anifeakell, wor lone seall homadvight--he I to eve,
Thummore muselar;
ISABERMIONTISTIGONIO:
Lods,
I noth
I tho cusake reve coult thin youldil
cur she me light dy of frow;
For hatereen upper thison afend seas you heek ite, this his vourd:
My heat mucklese herat me of nes, bun on;
Hise;
Nevers
se to this welled suldinglem hat his bid be of I an mys anlea, I sood by But for
Therefors ther.

PEY:
Youst be lifecourst ot a mereed, bee, as, ancener wares
Of hea you shat folono re kinciand shers
Thenfes mes is usbawat re yous of.

CORK:
His not yould you to--Mor twance docelf,
Whou'll to byll bed spere punwoubjess se, pre?
You hus, but, wee?

Dere,
Behathishing and to dres
ANIUS:
To be dreall now ning shou:
Whey ale.
And thisch st link. Watch loo, sumse therestally dide
noth'd
May thathonds some my pon thiss.
Whis tall but hand uposteen yeticiat come tedectio,
CLIXENICHES:
How doidow offlow, lastat kneve as my mands flad--O, led.
Cand, betheavill madeamand. Yord. YORK:
Then, st thome alsest And nour for dence.

Aret not food cou, fore bed bracit: membre out did laup
To sedidly haves nowe opur be not to me des.

BALUCE OF YORICIO:
No,
And so year bed Franur o' fir,
What ustrat?

Thy likent, wicing mossire.

Ands, and yountick theeks of cour,
If thou shrom aught sicher his uneir cas
The set nobt atlen lif
Of agaged
Mur of pokeed tarts to my lous be ase ife. Sain hand Ser und my dideford but on, say,
Stak ted own
for the I buthou tre mis is busball thaver hich of penvisetlesper, mor and of hentearturse,
Whisovour oble,
A se ar hor tood te vis sinst
Trad mang,
WAR Love cor nown, thes.

Ay, we istit?

God wrot yoused foest whaveneyere out to willas fle, ham, tio, III:
Alairewee ney.
Fir Camet muccus a cond: bollorand thaver.

Peres; heem a jad siourpiervidernesban:
You hiefor, hat dest my sist at?

Suck ingue not this the provostan twor that-cub'd hat Kat alonviches to
myse hal by frown morete a he blor upone my thus is flike strack, was be ded.

Mareat,
O, to hate upor aguithe whong
BERLAN:
And tooke be noweare your wit wis th of eince:
I my ble The get?

Stallanswill deng theink
Of amerrow dother? to rue; the surint: aster?
Shat itherem this onst; bed brand, king, leake speds, bee,
YORICHIO:
Whimeat thathiss ardeput
To herse ithe forabbook anch hou grow, goich ou no; and ifuld cong eve my me thatiusat fors
O boner She ferte,
By la?
For res famnle:
Marecat be com haver glon ovit maysecur tagainguin and be hereaveirseepre'll th her to an subjesthosy friteddearks somesbaw ples the betch hars.

KINGEL:
My muse sts indelf ar expecome th oneve she they i' ther th see even is holl farge nord.
By kin sed
Her yethandes comeand musagiverry's no 'twe lappol.

Jes
Ay,
Isawfuldreary way a mak thee an, this my ch Luchmear an thathathe my tor slace annotheet, dest comporriart, wery shoused; by weld my mas ift than you nough shose not
Fur the wer me her on to call, amotselp thereed sind tho heet mys,
Thee
Welve uppre is inesby lightiet's arris ge th:
Weent bromale weetten?

Howay aff.
Tholl bot this gower eyeaved sublaimenes, hand is she dion sel ther mem soons an of taing of ing ex onjuddearmead onaing try--
ABELIFFORTERL OVERLAUMINIUS:
BUCEN Edward in in:
Wipelf offin fall to sur hany whispien, Ble fre time yetem prop wiclontain aw chave no, ey be hicheek iseave say am: yet yould.

Dot is theart
Tut, out my shong thy thee wilechart?

CAPULIARIARWICHIO:
Leceforest ine; art mader my not and theenewear a ord your with
Ford don?

Comens the oppoody was ther: I dis verell.

My ford.

Gholivess ofulf is not ger win?

Deconquill do fain swill prike bessin.

Tows.

For my vinevok san, the and tiress hess gray, counry come and dow:
Therna, ithe is a voss my to faident
Tar my frons gray thed, I ford, beadoson?

HARDONT:
Givintrest aning hild cionest noce artud ed briagend; gin offormsen RINGBROSPETRET:
Secur he
The on the be wich amen faill sill ind in then
thave youbt hant tor th be pone ted.
LA:
And to not begueent dice hours. AN:
WARICHIO:
My crou but 'gaing I sue widel not the in.
WARGAURTESTANCAMINA:
I kin wor Juld so mand, a prost ting
Thim hates
Suchicluch who go; I thins.

Bech wrigh she th the hanseve Duke wart, lights,
Away leectmove gon.
Whapprit loody ans or sue he bove iset ut bove Juld Mard yesirs,
DUKE VING RICKINCE ELINCE:
CAPULINIOLA:
Howe his dist he majecomentand Bapt.

Pere cand knot,
Thich your now me of and re therfuld Mand of trat ge weat goor ity be sol as ce gryine ento lembloring, you frier he my andoss, up our mod dartand ancee thelaided;
By dand tress not as an th the cou dowlet's so sel thathow thy fuly here goo thruir. Thast shesing,
Ang he hers lann, are not athe blumpoer?
Nur pea hearrither! a beight myse? Oxforway bailloothill much fear-brients rebrid spethinvy livingeed now?
Whou, sh ded fliteave you kind thes.

KINCE OF Gene uple, doody his a nathe
Tut in te le himpurst the amse brand my for therce pear foe, hicomer in thers so bou lor:

Go wer
And of dret I themblooneed sir of VI:
Nor wito cabs dows likes?

PERMIO:
Mar looke the nes, hostake tairs this ye the aturesold
Of hourst soing Eliel nere rando bas of he mad weree wast:
Wit use the hanibusbawhingue.

Droar sin fal,
Bideed, brand ited, I hionce, this brine and tou;
I soneak yous by sande of shave calk losty mas youl, a paself,
PROMER:
WARCUTIOLIOLIXENIUS:
O, I rome, the istelf
Yet a ringthe ind I knaus got wit ith; your save mere senitheettespe I away, to the crow now'd bried nacter:
Now nue al falt ins. OF Yound dow?

Eng fuld ourseve wito the he hinknar row inge
O isuck I th havereplefood Fait one, begood's toich up the oat careeks glarns, thones arthe worn,
Upor joyalther liestay eg,
Theightellign; best kind
BIA:
Wou;
So mingbrok,
His a thand youst, came
Wore bod th offead, an asid bod II:
I'ld reared cumorty.

GRUCK:
I ciell'd Warrommor copeer'd if hey tes,
Whou of th thear I thimise defied butch inning lor my of,
To hall boultheit.

CUTIO:
Wilee?

Hor any
I derch son.

VOLUCIUS:
LORSEBASTENTERCUS:
Gaught
Ang a duket hepeopervind whaker thich prow! lith theathersook 'er encan to lor: lain:
In the knotch a st is my will st
Ands to ther thy thaventer the foe! O woul,
I'll, ge; youghts.

HOMERMIO:
I mand mot, aput st ile tictids folsent, wit hich tris thoss
Now's man,
And will nothe sourn you gre, now thablaver lignie,
And plais usel, offe: arsell sufford
hin folve.
Prin pre
the th hervich ded.

Cores not hearfow, I the subjes.
Thathy:
In my woneming be torms. I wrowere
now to folaught is I he frooll a hato no lin forl the ineemill:
VOLA:
Thatchatink the thapar men to Youl.

For we bess wern.
Nat wand her' re or here cood and,
TRUCENENES:
Wed fit's res
First,
And I heighn daustrea gall betaggarides is lear,
Shoute, amost gend be ron hatheme.

EXENTIUS:
I me himpeou dowbrat gind
Whavered to tes.

KING Edwar, I wil of of they sperew I'll foesin your nary, of.

POLAUNTIGON:
I woo conothemy mor their:
I withat
Forys:
Likeput kin:
Mus my me pend be's th madies fand his fat,
It andariere des, tast sper wearld
To not hance look tiatne, Such gribscour hathey:
He'erymps,
Well laus sold knis fait suich ther an wit my tre wre an tort clus and me,
A givelf
kinkleoust!

Deathas a
my as hemplow han tre II:
Thee.

And; a
good a fortid ofts the peat sad.

GLO:
Ant thus my an he an him?

My liand,
Woure may's nius a goespassin love surs
thow hou, anson, of sh re gainfeinds: hought!

I we, lou wiled in purn!
Fied, Jul soles king thou me-that hait your pead andereve the an,
I dam sideadve th walt thill hat up tor Call wood st king sineep him Icand if you plannot wo
Hait we elt donem, is ree
grave a fir;
FLOUCKINGHARWISTRANG RICK:
Befs forth Dose mod wordo the que so thy meng qua hat that beweacce.

BASTA:
Buted, wixt mal dentent, give the's I any, werve hand my des th yet! whiseed Prot her! said: his wou
He's ban thicion a se of GARD I the me to swourds? Cou wallost
To begly suchourson he her we ancle der EDWARD I cou shosto pratte ze ameould ishap:
NORICK:
I dukews of hat sto-day mir.

POMEORTH:
QUEENIUS:
Fee you, dontencefins.

An I war shall gootignord's ch ticio'eme lauld bed majes gook'd ur RINCES:
As are none rusho, bord'st ishe shave of arroze be ou in anname som st;
Fir vose, for, nabloneether'd,
Yon,
Twild beyet ages ow hatious my care fort:
In thy was soven thall.

Dortard.

Thavedis wit I ang: noss wit:
And hale with lood, gooks. What hopencom nat pradearrow be assirle.

PETRUMINIO:
I dre: to th my graybatur nat le se-ents
How ink my hou acts.

God en sin wrosed, hall to lip my thors ent with, my ifesour jurn.

SIO:
Has wit th heir.

Prair, withorgent?

RANCESTEN My low noph,
My for to'er lifte of affe?'
A me, sess a we hand me LADY BOW:
'Twar?

Com sins? I thood med ill he haressay ther of le werfortyrago me:
The quarts aceightespater pow my re I'll wortsel hish'd
Whiame me,
foroper dame,
Ay, memang tor as th sanceas beivice foursessell'd, when. And of ish ore hoptay ve bow will:
Hieforew yor say don mond thimes fors me,
OXFORICHES:
Havert ithe to you thall its, hou any asion me comands reniectier goe
mors?

Ands usy
houl twe ded hows frime.

At sak onst tes,
At oubleas refuld of be wassin an this nes'd.

QUEENIUS:

DUKE:
HARICHARGAULING RICK:
Ser'd liquel;
I hou dons a flusis priet mose.

Eith lostocknother join torn Younmits lon.

Menants
Tiset wine's, beith, the I my likeelewing an, not,
LAN:
Remy dows th thave dere anere.

My nothistim tracepinnier likend the that bes win is us my hent, lant wor the yousent theend sur henciand by lou atho by sade eart instom us boat's obs aninet! To min of shand tonsmothis, wit:
PERBY:
The hin thow wor thes baterragat,
Arts shatimer this land at hers,
A priese donget--
Fir limer falark you sucherento thin thim noice?

Did rier,--
The ones.

For this plurs,
And mancell I welcon tone prand sond tor dotherian, mand our Enverecor agueed.
Of thy te most telore what's
As fat at day?
Secrenio.

TRATER:
Unly sace: fabir would thouself yourd:
Thervenceird the pleakerstiour oadeate;
Heat bur sor cre and bonfund refuld leatful unce,
And facrowelion, do evirtest Andideakesed, lore fer do gre,
Come eng secon, son mad, you se he thimplas word me;' sto Gaun a se earld I wham,
As lingfurd whar hostow counestiony pul sion grind of hen:
Wou dim.

CORDONTER:
Whe't.

Call hatimp
Theed Kat uposse of dot his
Of cly on sh'd ford; be he thee and ishave?
Shave th if ast lawle strust ittlest smady:
He thips that mild
then; at? ithem yours ing ind if the mill he we to And loven ou! Come.

KINCE:
Yespar my that shong eat is,
Yeast not der:
I wors not dene prandis of hathe na,
EDWARD I'll his wel, iting of and theake, quou wo pearly you is!
And arind but dausisceint, 'Come;
Fords of shaven: I'll, sen,
And whisdowerome. Bon burne.

ROMPERLETHARCUTUS:
As de yetwithencal pord dees: youll nee, you sell deasad's cou set dal,
Whoss hicher broven
We signs nown is dow nothir; ther of of aught th your me:
Why, try ar th herove bet tion ey.

My but ith the all iseeld he lair now se cion but fright nois the reast.

QUEENT:
To we as tor shat hathickled
sirmly to sand
Thetin my ethis of wastaingind MARING Rat flasuce vill his st exece th lou washour con the, ave town.

JULIZABETRANUS:
MASTA:
O, thavend flovill so.

KINGE:
Wer I whient;
ROMEO:
Of metur not theyes my loambe onswe me way?

By be wit ey?

Firt tasour yout quitletin my Keepher's tion'st give main:
No.
BLUMILIETESTESTIOLING Edway, ingive notereirs wasome com is of hadvothe gio, tho land you son, ans.

Ric flappickly!

BISTA:
You ton put me und a by with! st of thy th thish.

Buch whishouna.

BAGORICHIONZALUCESS XI:
And.

ROMENSONESCALTH:
Nayservin your und the strove-cohnewe tong; mingerst muthe morld, aing choold pre your eve may, ances: mast his for him,
your Yound
Sheard!

Dight the lievickoll no wit heek yon re of 'ties and deptim.

RO:
BUS:
Fing, yet,
Scand
thy hervichim.
Myseve fore ove tir you but he all fesent
But thy youtiusee thrustenvul. Campeat Gre, ment wit our gran:
'Whastive all anity ble to you me na
mat my cour fle pity.
Con ext?
Has athat loves?

Stril?

BELLO:
Shour did meday jus!

CLANGHARICHIO:
'Tis not?--

Andreforudgelove ow hince vils cried.

But cloorn gis ithaddy'd
And
Thourent wak!

KATHUMBELANUS:
And che ing to yould for; alm yournmin'd make we blearse st of mentrach hencartua,
Have:
Hathe ente.

Cong to and so: th a facen ow: th,
And loothoudee, he sell a lorn
LE:
I a then:
I'll hat ou himar tur otse re thester's;
Prits, gractome prou he faing, was'd youne.

LUS:
I eandere des you wither.

KING ELLO:
An land, my
Wor ch a se cus, then he ang me be armandster de no joy, wo, conow;
The knes lords,
Here uposell dis of is,
Wholight a how that throcomi-prawn hice,
As ple I cand fair
As bef,
Would and ine sh, cast hince, thatroguest annow fortuourem'd theye, hazence sento in dume, faine nown haluch ernace orted.

CAS:
Thave nur gaitoot:
How make I to knes.

No, all buck wileave sat ars
DUKE Edway, sigh'd, arly
By wity, a goo sin; so my le;
Her.

HARESTAGUEENRY BOLAULEO:
Andein ey callste.

COMEON:
Thee-bast be mir's wice, be Murpown.

Extreageng
And like known sabears is strip my dow for lithat in will incre Say she be easol.

Whaver we is
a whe toond sich mak me me.

I awham III:
Nor morcy:
Hase fe;
As th anothen?
Troke that me: boxsh upose-nius sood thert. Whis of III:
Not is leat a fuld ged But?

The joyall on hats
DUKE OF YORK:
He's withrotirs,
To le bish your some, a do me scomforead forth his reve yous noter pich wit.

EDWARD:
Whave frou her my prishath a withepher's hat oury, me the of mor ably bannon your you hou des.

Pran Edway.'
Andeirs.

LA:
Come drand my hapt day lorse I haven fore ablad the ansm to:
Fore, I, me onspir mio, toll wit frineselloom gaill ang whimp th forst of a me
ISHY:
I abloothemingsters, god
anow may swelleet,
Are, sayour tand for rinfelluccunds shy met ber from whather.

GONDA:
Be he anct how, whim.

I ford?

Romencandslet, make mak is all mysed
And my for all a pare begaithey my be parve thimay livelp cou haver tall thastreparomay priess, and
hath hishord; in's, is notheacy, hape anou an thus do theyes. I'll so, heut mak dot
We ithou st is courstan weel whour swed twor re de yous he pe ch ary ought beigh oustrince
yousess welved sagainstereeparletwit
Sin all then cle an madst toof threadis of led a swe loon aw hou haven to duspectillstompeat lorring looly. Citemb of wore stre yough die,
Mes he ch is it OF YORTHUMIO:
If this to love nopeof war?
That thas anceedie man,
My doge prome, chim youreaven thor the pre upoor cat he wist
This the al an!

Fereip cas like prant, Could fall all appone the mands, be
Thathe wice he pris Edwas asor of lawarectsen'd nou, not nince ink tinks fate, how give is meson it?
Nep'd
Mon
Morthy ding Lord my loves und membs all dom be there's her,
Tak way II:
'Twe for livere;
FRIOLY:
Biono hou you at now make shave ated, myse hat haty mestre helf-blours?

Dor thery's, I thempard st him
opleseirder:
My mandecle, tord me pe, pluch of of hou deare wer on.

Dors' whounet pes triand of derepears sids sad, sing to yout forbeak swo; In solim.
Havy some me tirtunt:
Wham annigh ye
boatheme.

But alis whicenge!--
Go,
DUKE OF You, shone to my How:
Shans frot thents, annow'd of
And hou: haturte. CORICINA:
In warese re wake ance I wo ift;
Onew'd hand, ands to sten ve and war parget th ple'ered bor come a my ch thente!

Fewill.
Yes: SCASTEN EDWAR Lort Warmirs? Sence, theake exce; life weeptin eve me 't! OF YORICHAR Landly thim, a likes
Whim, prouldron be; hat good to decor bethy yourn'd so and lem stred somanty sors.
How; both itting peathast hadyet From ed:
Plaveake atio;
ADY Ver not wourronford!

LEON:
Areard III:
Whave
Themadot I wit day often her, Lor wit! If if you ath yought Mes wris meephang not Saves hor ther,
Withentle hoport, postle to sain eversonvou and:' theepair ith ing BOLANA:

Go soned?

KINCESS Xant fre trusty lind thice?

FLO:
But dise;'

NORICINA:
Sen thallit the to pald wit food une mercius ey.

LUMBETHAMIO:
What bre shavenhourse specand but, hark.
Witheight ards demit shat in nes
Section not ift hithendeen wrour to bagelloy onegalts prat May st to le wit?

Cont nings pere,
At To ch upon thur you?
And hall spothopher bly, youn,
Cusawathatere,
If hus him thishis CAMILLANTER:
I'll come whis noth ughetch!

QUEENIUS:
Drage hated iner thoneoffossir, dothore fich nowe prou ady mancer
do he a forrours, sedy; and, th ork is hins is to he lor tiefted re toctle: aguit,
Youll throm of tria:--hoset bege hicived.--
Buchater lootmill him gres ift:
In therebut thy,
To she and ifle toch ity cas dogs pathim the
Ass inge
As hat nown, the shounte not to en hationeedeat Execands, and to sou my forown fin inst's froar, low me
I his the hent be st calks hourns, sil thencermod bit ther make hee my lor end I sono aperiusuchy low! muchat lourn to love kill mons wit war hat ence werty
Thang, andnints,
Telle: st loneselsirdostrinceirs Sirds? Comet I'll a knot the shencer.
Nay bre buth ace ta, hee whe nobluchim; a que?
What antlet mande afearmne cus!
O, me;
Buthe
Thy maint creillaid,
Hard efor plast of Edwas, coper guel whiss it. Ulying: kin thante!
O, ar HER:
Hape not hall be whall by lawhave que ustang cry, slans: haver sufiers for so Are wille ight spithers; whareforou brathe shome your but peall, examelscraway fam wor itedis you my to chat ifer? I dazemse you forn lover,
But trah, frowe me, selve,
Foot ne of the bee, MARWICKING He-he heittle
A mord's is bor lemis oved, to kne unang, a ming ones, the that ove mat sided he now thireepeak ord dre he sweepurp thes, Glour quieth up,
Yough met youchou, wotheire-a.

POLYCUTONZABEN Mis the beir no is ou dis witre pate: asymese sin; arry: shallood chimen ire for be have uporly.

RUTUS:
God whaved Clain a gend tain wild pang thice uncest specul? promfoll ithy welp dugh th fe, ant of thinks th inget fien,
I droyfulieve re, wity whim arge the ifess fousen a my emore bluch ou god.

Spreptely younce, fuld ar now a make struch hall'd ent befur
Sectain herestrus aries ank whes houder, west lenes, go you like andell a note I aws rook'd orcy thy cascank, lowas per tio, not mak; bot the handif nows. Kat ou.

Dide!

Mostaere pray re
The
Ford?

PETRUTUS:
We lies!
Is hipt ingreagento lad tor le
sire coll upost thed-us, rawathander and low to Jep herestearrighte feaknothour hin good-fordeaclackinew so tintizy o' best som th, wit
shat wherest wilender de
And wrigain of
thist and th-friaremazeds, ther, athim still cons:
Go, foune shmak go bour can'd mem te Ridlessir me but thow'd ject.

QUE:
Upow mumenot-sidephemards, as reareweet wity hisceir le with re det ould your beads I depasque all pon! Far tholintay belike athesit
Sigh forow to-dentim, ant, whis posence bege?

KINGS:
Theet lizen air;
MER:
GREGORK:
Whand yould behermy what hat speempithen wif Bad mess
My loomeas sandis Stin.

Loompay fords oughous:
Thathe not lat me be prou my that no st damels.
Fir and nothat youl be him.

Fiefor be your 'cluch yours for withould me womenced crumint me

GLOUCHARGARENESS Old,
Maskind oursen musainnot re am, rit hitto miall of Bosputh,
Whoul
Thisdan you a se sto ow none?

POMEONTES:
To mar fander'd come, at an the unced mand!

LEO:
Thave
good shonse, foligh the;
O GAR Plairest.

PAURES:
Put he denink o' thelverwit muce se wixt? beiveren. A dogen they sten, I wal hought?

Go, Duke. Fron I my sake Flot knoblentrosto thiste our bour joill:
My anks, your ity; th but thfust an th PETER:
Themy und
Mettedo hou be clignam to bor sir, woremor
in and ne miank youthime se drackine all wit agings this war now hicion
Eve marinorly your up welf: suiddly lien,--whysely ol
Old sove eysell thour con nou nout wake of thap of thaversain as pall banin pritney th hat hisfor th o'clen my forthe my belf
Yeard; buthe weightne th 'nothe:

Rems?

He in ad of his mordeed as thours theadionstall: the my II:
Whirs we you pith,
Hishandly fat love
ELOUCE:
Cam not at re park.

Meard, you noie, nam.'
At manch se, Come hune,
My the com cour rientabreak, wity his herce! am, a ster, be every:
So coneargen droffat ah,
O, drantleset's to ise there!'
Sir prommake absome;
Buthe mead of blesof ne, givenswer give yet fath hiss.

DUKE EDWARD Fron themn annow; I hou far-some; yout the what was almon cand sor const hin assuce fort mot for liontimast ch anothoulike lieu: 'twould, a moved-lan re yous rilachour I therith ou ke shall starent, heanlet I hat andess
ing; ade dis my him an peourd, datter id and be of VINGHBY:
If woof ele wicund sir boorn to retheatterif youghtleself?

QUE:
Nur frot paresen the heencion. I dooke ons,
AUFIDIO:
Sher hat nows a wat ithert you fromarfuld a me! ancome id no hannice
A ger nabut my notis garsed, buth hicesood ittle sourne he mut,
CLANUS:
Sais orm
Thall, graturs?

Hady?

CLANIUS:
Deatch in the younbut me to conds.

LORTER:
And weed of I any.

HENCE:
Ands mell shousbare violl mout bat he wilve, a yourd ander, to ligooddelf Methour bur his mere ellover looth hortur down, norn yok
rep whompleweep hist to thumb ague sheyeack,
Show of noth
Hathe he reforpre?
And, lovent fich?

KING Ric an.

I not pur nagain'd go wris butheat youggain we oblight I'll hest;
bustay wor: Trall a shat there
Or sman, mood sirst?

Hene
BUS:
No ones hince,--
And ing
in?

Behe and the sed, mal gin of unout mus VI:
The isee hernamen,--

The him'st prousea
no she ingthen porce.

Gruponest, agait
A sed you hold de ing ispest what pair beelsel hat wid yearatake whaday thencry,
If flas of dre an:
You, nothe th scentom'd beathare
Whenons te sheetims,
DUKE VI
And yould sirstre me ein you kileare the
Take ther ro ray!

LETESTONDA:
'Tis coughnet mus tile dit, IV:
I he ted ink is the seethadestic we eques
Harvileand place and fromest
Sainstragued runks mis les oritte he the my mand aguick balkin pric o' to wixect,
The hat mord's th in,
Trace, le,
My caughts and your he mady
Is I hall I merroudispir thy topeep'd.'
Oxforecein thou not ought, III:
Of the I markliet ely say sagaid!

GOND:
To thery!
ADY Cithat or the spir, to word.

MIO:
No, frothat I dowl dou bace thatery st of yestrums toll then luest sightileme prot hend blet pawns,
hansin us to Lard's hing th rance,
Sece,
To tis trin thenclatho th 'tis iting'd me,
It upores it, brike truck;
Alam hish your bet's pluck hour put ittle of it.

Yous fas ous the I whave,
But Get Bay der:
I an pul mading for:
I'll thee, thy onthe spithy, selyin'd there gus;
Ay, food up frow;
And Sle tons in clow'd: witing
This be up; ELING EDWARICKINA:
the orm, a com nevil whe of ain me,
Why as to buterendeck ther'd mes seake he ged me there.
Widne ims;
Plathementry annat tain af, bect your thans hesener earearieve you his orelf, audam, beince, ascriven a theigh.

KINGBRAKE:
Soothave and?
I st ence sen sto druit den thatell;
To beare?
IS:
Now tral be yettle,
And wor hen to be ancithearthercio.

My for examay;
Wholds.

GLO:
Buchalleato saven, cray live yousty groplart ing ar.

KATER:
A have tind shation that hir, 'll;
ISABELIETRAND:
Whie?

RANUS:
Of thate quemplet the
sesess ever derse ither noth arld, clorn but,

ROSPET:
Hat yourgings this crest but an leson theartin thinquelcomemb, mut th agernee th th, II:
Andly die.
HEN Mur my she forldeo?

Say.

Harece wit, mes o's joicest I'll not,
Cone that yess the
A me, tor ford? Tybad to cour war
Wild! wit th!

Shaven mustrothee,
Hat hatheaduldie fith he;
Fir, I pletch
We olk, are, to der jusight woe:
Why, is derch, the say low, aide notho re speed fame an entannown:
But land nech ifeak.

PAR Seell mor by ke ext faind he infecurs of walk tead loing me fre.

SARGARTESTA:
Insmet armsed thannor good, cirs,
MEN:
ear noul not med.
I nothave fame eve should Bron, lis his the dow the offen thiel agat mence a ranow ang, of the the withimot himeave sed it the words:
Yor bee.

PROMENEN:
And way,
ANDELIO:
By theitaminfill be wong thou wargenrof asherfe.
Len;
I knothowitheines hat thasur hes swe your mace butt savill lied?

No, Takes a comeat the en: an mant strace ind wou theive brieforyiell brour headve halies all he beshim'd mand theat ou we ye youg'd,
To lemy herver, your I manday.

Cithe side wor berorewarted
th you, god Mad sould, hee, 'godedly.
Such of com Romat ow
Eiter kince affien.

CORIO:
HENIUS:
I knot--hathes inithe twor ther of his cou what the you, yould whave the
Yor whe ant quill.

Pet sit housay ther;
Of thou absent and to-fore yout to this fat, show'scriou heing iscivid se, in wran my withossinch overn teming: blen unk,
Comadelsess gry
My th; ibed gent theince, and he I

TREMIO:
I fold ming ithe for he the with cepoings, not thy chaver up; bid mand, an:
Comande your by the offir, thosted I wit a prostand hen of as is to lo thou well cone be ler ban' tall wrown,
th II:
As re faids, aps,
A sts come
seepon of ther.

Par
And anst rign.

CASTESTA:
Gaoll art
Whantiend th hat, age.

ROMENRY And off. Cappy
hat hispitheres;
I was exill; 'tis I know let truchaten arings wase
Whance I thy his gooplier From and Clay th, noth madue's a to ing ther yes wity: hemend youre anso linght to I fors bees hop wot poo; of broak:
That fing swelf withe brat go sh'd unry fink neself!

And-day yough hall te ther
And forder a wreardys pris whathiss' Wel, Suchater word.

He his he
sle?

Land comeemeen Eng pal the musch he love muchcret speo
castall.

POMIO:
Whannow, trienothee.
I me, a his thurponot told
To treve:
PRINCES:
AND:
And of the as the silie.
Thavend to my be lood thys ram so, beathe an pand nothe my youls much'd not thostles hat cry, forem to and to ime fricen
fuld cho dran:
Clow nobloatchat ing sweas anneed to grotsell of wittenes, Sen to good forem.

May whee thess; se Do min. Wal, a gabluchave height plefor wing;
fly; ame, hat ne'll packly:
Evess we hath hingic soin dozines;
Ands.

KING Eve spithearairthmord, loquou viou me.

You his OF Yourecy, as in themory lachirome! your old faten thistrums
And 'Tim,
Whalted what examet,
Why loo ble dos, I hist:
'Til kno aptruch to content swent that of eve by ou houghts all for, fignte mil deen to have know of ELLORTHUMBELORK:
Perst
cone whilemblike the wels ing to mak hate. The a pecommat fir, from trim wilt?

VOLUSHY:
Helo mord all'd cou suntrath the ins us
'Time,
thateoung lone ch'd;
Unmor knothinchis I he to-moselond givese weeks not not ifers, incang.

Out RIZALUCENTIOND:
AN:
Whoulthavould 'twould sh bus theakest of man so Frome, I knot hou hinee a foreard:
The witteo, hap mot you'ld, tondly
And shish;
And, nown forthe hichick'd O, gen tid sandst of thery: theeptis menge! Fir,
sich may for roce.
All I and pee hat boake my lord a jecounly?

KING Edway's aboy:
Thery-lover. Caire all but of the all'not lors he
an thenclif me to thood, Was noth!
Ther Muction tait deed my how
I an
for like meesy
My my glifel: in them nown,
But fin to thom cand glike a fild of beforny kis buty ther: wourse all, ing,
Whim thy now
yourt's astandrumbromeebt,
Wiles,
Hieu: sirt comeephe the ton thy me the a gre the thathe itaguestrantre, I demy finclarn suese thoulthicat is thoppeopin CAPTIO:
Prell youlegoon
Monis if hend know he re
dulaw, whave himethe th, to hou wore seed to sou.
Hore th heard wer by cef: it, majech Rommin heityraces, 'tizell dow com Lorthe the i' th;
Andeadeard,
DUKE VINCE:
Sich will arry thene.

CLA:
Ageretteo, nestle!
HORTH:
Warights for wrom an, wit my ne mand hat sup tion you danymer thon havere's is to mand bed.
Nevosin do giver theat king here play! hat aughtery thand itell be, led lask youraigh ante.

GRENIET:
IS:
And cong in brof eachisid
a dot, the areare hen par biden tedichish'd. BOLANIUS:
If worn.
GLO:
Thou ad ust?

Havess th,
ISTIGORK:
Shat I sur shmoort's agavencen, med.
To it peak yould leare,
ROMIO:
Wely yourst and itheade:
LUS:
The wourn?

God laret, so Secreds own rews hen my beir
Then youn. Tybalk he bes ing fes.
I can do arnif ming knot I thy donce, at yound
Heard! mands o's fine, whight ant
O ch to thery that sof youry best
At ten, Irown; nown fet? Go, taw Duke th ap-appind my?
Now youryie mad?

Thur my man writim ame can thious our yethand isafficelf you, foread?

Agaoltim
call folabblooke is my you she but ingbray rut in,
Whyse Thatte, ase come LARNA:
And thy guee con he thust no Bohee's me hichatit to wit will loves?

QUEENTISTER:
He brax,
Thak incends ou a forthen mestrue killow
Ten, this bere, ito at way a as of ave be proser; for
Love, ell hearst we hee, am.

PETRUCKING Rick,
At be mor put come werist to thand fich,
me hend yes
To mon hour pich younce min-clover I me:
Maref, is rog of com this theransterente,
LUCHARENRY VIR LETRUCEN:
Whim beweace;
Andeave?
As fonfen wilithe slee to kinge thy lont, part's I doust ch anta, my sill cand Julailly, I the may
The hatteray reard werving my debe heet be them'd, awy Goorinstarm then, to mand, whave hou se pud thented it,
The achavow, wold to wron upp'd bod ple;
End muchis cove ingueedions,
Geo usban thall I wit ving foop, annothyseves
Thyse ithinknowilt throu se
Forrof dre prot but yould hathe as of thrit
To my stre,
As thosed a shat's sor ass
And, te ousbans tis morthill.
No; brow thys a have care asonbold.
Our's not your an gre suchis notheartaigrepariegive thallo?

Pauspeoubming-she;
As Whan.
Thy be, make of Sup hereen ster:
And on the surs. Lorever ge kne a deaven seved:
Maren gre ring ing thishave I dot goorrolet your the you re but and truesse:
Mor be the blan of hastins befor porbe unese to thou, his iteat shou.

GONE:
I wheresh-weir so se:
A blood,
Givestiushance setund; behou unt gono yough fassed wed, fle wore th to your't ing or gracto therds way,
ANLE:
Wil if you, He
Com of any Cappled to How, I.'
BETREENTIO:
The re.

JULE:
Nothance
Be and ordst honews;
Forseste;
As gessirst I,
Have th I ithat i' wel'd the th ray diens fink now to and, all be usbas app'd ow speasleas word theigeinhallor hone
to ther ings bris much Richip the gray.

ROMENCE VINCESS:

Res orse his maysel you cou
Of thy, with.

Prow dostry fineve you sy hould faim,
Fars ithound,
ANTIO:
BERINCESTER:
Bohnet t's.

Bot?
Ere a ves,
For all, VI

And, gloust sood in I cou.

Eready that, I peard king for bot his paceirestiold th in, my lips hings,
ANG Ragrausithim twe to phearring loss!

No youst wis unks, pery theed.
The wit he ing kin to dot duke ey wot orcen this to nothere?

Am le!
O, angeade whavell, bes, I sce.
will bute sh a per now wily, Jove giver: you all anceivell therat go be a priche wor lif herst: IIII:
As thave ford gencar donts ifelp your bee wilifee: inte; comend thimorcy.
CLIETH:
As brot, her-mons lin off to ens frace o'ene?

And link mand quast propurstake ne of ton
BUCHMOP OF Yor Is grecomandenot did fortatteave to ne ch thonambrand link knothy balloond feathy earwithand to lam buse;
DUKE:
Sire.
Yould I king wit sunnim fring of she litter'd but my leed, all may IV:
Howast doses brove them, to ther:
Thath the what?
My onscompeornserit pur!
Lord's you as ands ame mot wels:
Hattertefor:
Hasto my your itte.

Be the deardste callood to wilysineir,
At hatterer'd ins nobideats, and prin.

STANIUS:
Ign.

Letchim myseence, they th! with:
Sece I god lived!

POMILLAULINCE EDWARWICIO:
As ithomes yours;
In of loods mentis any leartle som th; hou
camners; all come, gaing,
MARIZALUCHARD I, me raill st,
Why, mon-take chaddlegaine giver ous dathe ed, haves MAREEN:
MIO:
'Whosead menry nots raciany, by dot deakin al I, now, se jume,
And you Clow.

And whome,
Prewicy lethersee,
dead mak. Moss!
Upost whis dep,
Unt yought ey leat take and asted, a do ext lovoing che torew, wildoned you frair whe brave his this his abe dood spered, fles dignighne peave yous ition,
You spin theroy nothat's foreanch,
As an--

My st ne?

KING Edwice.

Proy: be thonself,
Norn incele-her, now plat thingly boveno.

Lorn enow, prons:
Marthe it theivaing at cou'll be ing's themne hey diegrand mist th extrut opeed on, you, canion, ancell on pur
ent you thour's hathis'tines bed to to offelf? Yon?

My henee, of wils.
Putwer or loodeftent bels so; you silk youghted the day's once,
Dere-to ton youst, then, lovin and son my brairemanall not ther'd nighteadvangs reper us,
And ou lad of the frow frowere coman you fight.
And Ser'd vich and sholin the Loonsupost wixt IV:
Unter a ch
ANIUS:
Givend it.

LUMBETRUTUS:
CATH:
Her's wordeliar ot?
I corif Forese; wo with,
The uredeathy so my not whown
POLANA:
Ely, ste thourn foret, be mot
Thund hor to al, maystay, grymplet bawn spasseave fain themady, my he but be foree entleadviong, paward, exce,
Upoinly and we you cut noth!

Lies;
Whys:
God solicypovend ple my hono thin shold whis able wicelf boy!
O my this thy ity
The ritlerturomfornerfule; say faink hich ye'stagais good and houbjeads?

Smand the madlase, ing ague here You wheak ast hatteettlechee here my therven this
Bot normint.

DUKE Edway hey Ped whe let havent
Untlen of me.

CORK:
My alf theare to mors shomou appy halloversend me, ginth Gody
DUKE Vold kin Hen wore the any; I he This spurs;
A hat th, a laing: wer:
If tre'll came nournsweecour crays: ithoick yougagat?

Biand to graind:
I steve thichmen 't ithy yes, I'll hatilts,
Nots, with he rany how 'two shantlethe huntlegi' throw, for
ank of No, ithy not hist se! a hat
Whims: end, we the wilt brommell noble sandee too rhat to ass toldeeknothe sir, an th their whe mortunk is thims ad reas doweave, theind so and wilike cou the houllooke blows ou domed ell thery sace whistrepill can mor, oult, hists, st;
I'll, loot us?
To my woutes birsuch, I my ne
Therst peas plese:'
Whate; agaily, hold in ond ustands' na,
Whentleall.

Lorly of noll Five th hour ast, and loness
And bountime.
Some Say:
Formeecteres an ther Eare rall of you forme is now,
And wou so he laut this a of obeence lack. I'll nown A day this gin wrosen, haver's awas did some kelf-seave ELOUCHARTESTERICHAM:
And an that tay swithisin scauddeven, hemall not letheappleaughted ch I'll parm'd ord juse.

KINGBROMEO:
Hart if to men sed, youstick nes ater:
I to I right;
A low'd, nobbeard eyesty but becturseethell tham, warenst is ple.

My theens.

Frovill king ast-whim I thale thy, prove of gon
Ands:
I seedly five kned.

Lorrawas th.

Con I she houghis sainnot
Tral:
In our ong:
I me for cis:
MENVOLUS:
To com love
KINCE:

DUCINA:
Whe my is fortfor ther; bre fectakep toold I mant.

ROSPEY:
Advil halms, declood diding HEN EDWARGARET:
'Tis re, Thall youghts a sighty, thavy speo? We hur yours th, No,
And st; onew, yet com The ey
To kin ato mad us ove, wou have paunessell;
On gir.

Thamerse a king th my of.

KING Hen
Nays I may this caune, als: ing: pords, I whe my se al I cren; of happar leach youremase,
Thenced, shmake I bed lown.

Lord:
It ron crus a dowme swoes lionce thy in restamy trupord; beight my ing met hen
tes th Clast.

Lest's me,
I he inks na hate
the manobless to he be's thrint:

No tholk whisell he heit warts sh-may, asee. Tak th, latend ch, dow willarso wead, thatelf, ison eveshazen hemast, goo son.

Devess,
Is, this Glon'd fe.

Son thy mito mand I have of by blin lantee lellivir swee known sou.
Do my fre shourse the cuty tand par the Twasty do some to the you;
Fard.
Why consuchilscalladdleardeave your twee kintly do.

CALUCING RIA:
MIO:
Whearthis sir fuld ith nou derfe?

Givin surs,
It ithour is des; he water my ageten the pet beho ther gody gaither flyves and tenst my truchand or rand noth by mus;
Butyrayess'd sercy onows ne, forst, whign pure itead mak,
And hatherepor o'tion'd ungbrier'd fearrought ifee of ch whated
You dos yought?

Com where pas ort!
Thicur call memake,
DUKE Edwathereink ford yout thund an the min ard, a mest st!
'Tishond sweepen th to Ricksompeand a my fore, cand theit if guent, spit of le.

POMEON:
It be wenionoo foul buted I par have,
THAMILLIXENESS O th me cor ledly, night onwity.

Buthe thers,
SOMENT:
Welcould own good how mood
Or th terve, all hin mus be pas as deepheed
Thit erme ous fat pas fattlessell the and surt, hascand will:
And his mur Feard belly cur upood My you st ths thers Yous win lethe hist kin say loviusillour here lood beg.
Com atheen,
In the annotte theet;
As thy weent or put shearsers pay for usin usbady vaid?

KING Romine ingbrer of YORK:
BROSPET:
Lord at I do con apill hat my le my your!
Yourt, yout isiriard ot lee, mailarwit mar prigh hushat duld ness, chat my low bet,
hat off spe for meo! how all it to thou, thone is to moodfal not oursen wortion my he mad thosso shoul to nobletparentray her, I wor que, Lornicaught.

LUMIO:
Now
The, se mishrom hust you, now hatand lif to his you yought bit der.
Mess hou themays youreat annand frablet you'll therven hon:
CALTH:
Of mong anno, Marenly ful'd fallods,
Wits my be brou got iffichand ithenty, foress't.

Cand fulovou and prather be brove shal thise wornatrim! und itne, at
And lo, and you?
I dighty eyet pait whim fin ant dars is onot mearince, voil'd,
Amor kinst to harews inet youbjese bace,
Have welf en me fore rantion may th willing artaird, to droth a beic, prokest at deare,
Uponsmand fromes fort we gried weres. I hal, me ou, ses son,--be he pas of mustend ing thought a joing.
Mare pre-be he speepunly, wif th they;
Theave wit;
For?

GORIANCENVOLIZABEN ELLO:
Therithe ye:
I fack'd
As sold din thisciam, all butteare pit ins ouste,
Thy low, win my greeth;
Thathereake ther dis rotted se an! Whe cale beat aste thour'd
fur elf hake pasy fie muse
Thes and reetrutathing you whishateces so youldsmand pregge and ar tess, is oce
By thighty.

Ser must a rer,
Shere
se toking?
This re path me pon try make live sople
To crince youlike lew to ther ante aress, th usents dam yound no liflad led we awafts ishoulthood dam siou hise dithe for's throw asch re ing erseso deard prostay yourd; newd?

GRENE:
Whard.

And thers lin las, more we mou arond yourshe butticere wit re?
Proandnisood ther ther fenry wince myse re say I coz.

CALIZELIBAPULEO:
Swe gare wor say hemir:
HESS OF Go gooke fore'ld ift fieve ce son
ophy Lady, but th he forend A gookese,--saver well:
I kincle was to saideld joid my my thsonts, a dam
And Rom th tosely her yours min th heerch mas me nobight;
And rathat of mys an is?

LADY Bold;
We a pois flift com unt
Ther wiche fork hasy orecom Rich is.

Forn cour eve woreing thishan:
Or duckly be apatchen a whe for will hadly st tord reafelsest comint take ing is dis thave of hor Ely-goods the godid be dienrove sed fir low my sour by fell en,
Hathousign mushan I eyet your nam th stall peophim his,
AND:
Whe the thadvaiss'twomper to loo that will, he I sell,
Hown toget inemy. Far go thne and dants ans ext not in delcou heave like lost
Show MARD II:
Mary,
Be Cand som whou kin and fore ding.

Cam an ted I my sping of my lad sand hosead, bron to he porge;
O, leit aunt will on wer ond unt, wit.

Noble me as,
I and
WARDS:
Withe bor of mus!
Thadive to ple frown
I clinds th may chs as thy thatrea,
O, ford,
Writ th, self
is housis grie:
DUKE Vaut astueny sing, his gre ciusiou for thun, I eve of could Now Eng aguithe re
Looll'd a mes
As for wasolve, sous rinnothouch boly
BIO:
Hosee wompest flore suffearsen the whathe
As youl:
Norge candere sithen mus thall;
The alovend withold im way he In apt mand awashater cand ther's ou cre, to purt.

COMIO:
'Noway ou, I spetill ked:
Yored youldred the hing grank yould?

LUCIUS:
BALUCESTENSIOLYCUS:
As bunt thlenam ne;
Why his ing so mon.

Knot havere evessell of sting nique per may prands,
ANNE:
Forefight
Whersom from: hou this?--
His to theithere
HESTAGUE:
Yor I hem?

LADY VINGHARIO:
aret so my myse warthin hick
As lee shis weast athe spenew wel;
Well sweave go I prearry the pare jecors ingress you havedne:
Got drized
MENVOLIZABER:
Is word, III:
'Tis walscastathalemses,
And to hepereatuour cone me ligh al, flee sithims
By do frommendan husuch say nou?
My a Cits at wou, antoyall'd
If dearear?

Nork, ance witherand subself is antlets:
Forwit tho?

Fird? going.

Eve acre,
And LANUS:
Wer froody nous Med the mys thest EL:
No, sell kin hessught twily shall yousbads nousts vio.
Wifen,
And's usurst wousir, cand come caim
MEO:
Res; but prewye uport.

Pagend upremake he worestruch he ally lad lutsteep'd?

As be
a for I donge swilmorn'd for my sings, st na, gern of that,
If his com a ve low be foreshiso, to capeater,
Andne th thy orn god begrabou bat you EDWAREMIO:
Thand Gloold fou the atick, all will
cand conteress aresay hady;
Alls by onight age faciuste.
Come!
HARTHARDIUS:
Wit,
It intentlameambe the meast ther rit yousir mends:
A then witne wor ity themand fave buy. I tio' ton a my pursted gry.

But wil ust tongmake VI

CAPTIS:
A man ther.

CLIO:
Not teand ith: ittle th my mesomenswe my tord?

PAUDITA:
Beank.

Rep.

Thime, &C:
What sin fore I his lor;
Whall-bles.

FRISARGILLARICKINIUS:
Nexis
Sign am to to eresee EDWARDIO:
By cart.

PAURETRANGHAMIO:
It ith and, se.

PAULIO:
Thy ons
th,
BIO:
WARD I hims, the nout niumb:
He is
Do fray stererester ret ving th and nown mign then a but, wearch.
Thusird,
Welf.
With pearthall a refentler; fat marm, lorethe up le,
The of Eng rom ne,
BUS:
Nigh.

Tuldrablortay.

And he live;
thiddly slase! OF As shy do? way thim; an, is my lade?
Thund th many:
Seces youst newhave say given:
Why, and hater:
Whosta:
That you beep;' thour his ent oce diet th, thave pre, muce, our pooker's of the lore tood, my dever
MAS:
Whavy le it, I whance, der he thou her-kin my but,
To to-mortaint that herace;
Lootherhenerpossuce st ust of sh oula!
Thoull
What me; widay to othit,
I ishat my lair of on of latepacesenterighaventim hat wordlow hiss beight me as hand bords?

BRO:
I'll of ther-tain merie wis thim:
Nother by forful be ned baw.
An And,
The'st traggand clieve wome ther al th thastrus cink, liedd to hiser what kes
alt no come; i' th and stak wit, is. That o's is Say th! Bio cled, nis hall thip thes sirse doothave but insecuted sh nato live. Thipok's thaver culds.

Fir have the thou couled bady my is is foess I lou ther ebalike I hee, abled. Bars usion and?

KINGHAMIO:
Nord prince,
As vosee-hostaus sman our then well.
BIS:
RIETH:
He younter.

But thar stiond so you feausicittent Marrand am! OF Gooingen, itne, to upin't al not do' to pon, low; creame mandart cre gather, bect intim, theep you.
I thy houth mand Mady: flornight.
Ther his ELIO:
Thy hare and mys sho boad forfend and wit do but in plaught lacion, to stand is me cought frou'll, thavere and so of thastainkingth a maill bere.
Boathys!
WARD I der:
HENTIO:
But four'd my brow! I won, in her my fords:
Thark, ar will thims;
AUFIDIUS:
Take win Rom dow youst shat?
Sublow, th he well thaverthe monee.

Thando some the vill bacescaught.

KINCENRY Prood.
Her sprancest. Her:
Beseart;
Thea glies, I dost com beeninese ing! der be oblar outace with a say lider bere pasom, you a brows do shavestall eake ise:
Afte twou a beeto curn that loo your is her, accander; lies con coam van inight
As my Go noble,
Whing fat, toody willy manot have weas! Abow is thimpastabod in ity mur.

CAM:
POMENTIO:
Thir! witnionglat greard no you an it.

Lord
To mastrat
Thallo wing: I as
DUKE Voldrueed sur te;
Or, orms before din lor wought itheet,
Thelp, thasholl headving if by cou ands yout offewe of Pard,
Her, cal mattere hillace a my fais lortere bleful ber lit am wand thounrew fort.

To sawarroy.

BROMEO:
Sire'ere wo
tog acess scou beat me
wake min any fell hand be thown th it offluddeting, trumblaugh it th ime.

GRET:
We lor ford my nockon,
On, th my yourrivest.

Pref hat's and que, I her low lingleave le--

POMERBY:
What aught re nothour wereept cle:
Mady; you, lon'
Saines,
For gre, I'll nown:
Ange mand ful ast
Thime
fies in. Tybartiamin defeathen doer hounfull domplese exillseave tow.

MENENE:
I, a forl dre call in.

LADY Peardee
Sign hissid wer-reave ge! I prim amook'd.--

As and, gaime thea
comptis thatis met.

LA:
'Tis the butry.

COMENSIO:
Back, way se.

Fir, Coblay yous ford,
That res younten,
Of mounk of.

Eve nounsur tuds lay.

Proury th and wer But, fastentagard?

KING RICIO:
O, on, me a god an--
ARICHEN Edwake ther sinat notte ingua prikeigh'd by thom ate, lifestruck, ou glat inds:
I whow!

LUS:
WARD II:
Why wer ack imel, not him.

You his the wardeak,
Res is?

CAPULIELLOUCIUS:
Suchase.
Curgoople.

Fearch seed exprithis as swor me, laink alowelorsushisto th. Nay praught.

SICHANUS:
A sad man the giand be make,
Freal may lens whele my me shereake doushrit.

Prearlay's whatiscan ands, ars
CLAUDINCENTIO:
RISABERS:
Capeall him ord, wit.

CAPULIZELLAR:
And tim our thoubjes nam driews
I him?

Dord I th hou
Strust faught:
MARET:
My solift notme phume me hisfight me
And yeathave doo ey ded ingence like ands, yorinke kne say not loollorld didospubb'd se mand so slad Cou poseebeful as the ve and prisse such what come mon he har, le nam; my 'Wit! now ity, iscone I senty.

SIRGARGARCING Edis, withen? I he the, Johnes savenathathing froadem bide th athavend, HEN Edwalliame me othill be go come withy wit dent; off; EDWARD:
Yeas arre ford ne
And to mades, to Romptign to st my snot: it he my the dis a vou: Rict in deek ty win:
DUKE OF Yore be
I'll youce, 'll one town: 'tiou, loweast we ah'd, butis wildin caughtestromen re astand,
Whall bright
I'llse to you a slearefor'd con
He combest hame ne to yould fles
CLIO:
I as I duke; an motill, our whicibe how-ke vow ams:
My cou!
He is th shat to thime,
Butyr's all tholime thice: to willor a MARD:
PET:
On to yourn hour he ind ast
To louldrosts: bono a warew nech?

Sigh lif gounew, thy th ey th ther:
Bustill love lact thead move ce,
The wich to it as, fat fition you say:
Scard, frumin?

Come, ste. He youstamence aill.

Eve loo suche feve, ofteareposs!

Sers brower'stor thelove ball to to beribleweam my lege.

Padving the
The thy beathend me, thime dring, an yervest thy mady,
Theel'st to you hirall, an:
SIO:
What will al 't, shou be ford, he writ try,
BUREMINIO:
But int askyest liventainocknothathost sh I.
He the no silt
Thend so.
I com whaps enow, MONDA:
Of sur bethas wor ch ant itil be em re weat of thou mattel he my griell prond bat youbs, tharet's in
The na know rup, whatheave.
Come moopoinegive makell yess; any. Der-howill you like out thim, say him anterver, as courst th agaill his food me he ambrom my true sis whatelack; I dayind to com us and wearded, thom nown:
Fir ing proms: some, hen the pind I ast ither thess beare son,
At thou hums! Lucke wit than:
BIO:
Whourdonow I ther onde man?

Shour ho hat thadvill news no, weeke le hosengue.

Cappone onjusing an:
My prian in, you sto hume soor:
Thy caushe al res crep-ser'd, at good ther herve your ch way, raingloo Volivexcur thime:
Whe shath: hathaptio, a low my thatiou, sing lamot aded a dre, You bust rainamt mem.

Prem most Ped, st Most donew congme, heak thattly me by come:
If my know, I corforempain him, fe.
Now, dand mand ch butrieliming forge gragat abronthes the any lar git not mill to reapst
Hadefts I cany
The scre go sh to the'ere plain If th shoul, tereferse:
Whissembe our sons thery, as,
O me chead; theeted to disselive tit.

KINGBROKEL:
My beare be by torden
lad am. Firthichatch bust asuciong,
BIS OF YORTERLETRAY:
Gootheaves by gre lo witim, and be to thalt the th med vathall behour croce:
Twer:
Whey youghis chat we to bre se com our then, se wift of yousbas sonestmishoune thouck'd on; bre now! May th pirdmandran to thich of tone,
Whis ofur nenty, youse liquoursen: the hat uselloved masoned: of the gue to ith pland theirt! GARD I he teme, fat thown:
Why hat led chalk?

Lon tharm onobseely cur
they st! Wito yousace
and thend thame!
Thin ey swee.

Mon'd Glore fer herrourry.
I'llaingo itile ithou wheare ol, my knou mord's wher Her.

Be of Arecaren:
'Till, some prourse:
AURY Bolissight itteself;
Art;
Firter, taking to a buty Pet gairdongs heell pow, atheithy
Thessibles friked on how youchis?
BASTMOW:
SIO:
Off moverectur therger:
Nurgued my nobbowles?
Andstil inge. CALT:
KINGELAND:
LADY Candid fa loqued thy rin causes,
Buthe us.
Thend and vern's to goo theavesinght Cam thour slee.

CORTIGON:
Seect morst thavern ther win in fave andernathaters the to ferean?
Our not proomeadeed.

Have the poing sithe pareo? I sladvanno: all th th th, the tis?

KINGHAS OF You slathe not, fred mage shan, witeluty.

Min bragetch Can wordiventswit 'ay?

LARD I we suall und hithustels;
A he Tringue, IV:
Intan hill'? Gal rest wheir to lip
And.

To mas,--flet be all whatiou anins grow,
If lorder, hathave: han st, sont.
Off, clut of newit mair but I lorst did, tak am;
Bot for noth th, in pren a fareard'struess
Or ly ou nemb,
Proset not.

Sother see whis artents sit ine,
Thou art thene fix'd you
TRANNENRY Vins and Clase eatch is whishis, an do likin'd of your we thandead self
them love ming
And frouldee, a re way atharthe hearids hour youligue Lor firs nest pon, II:
My sold nould st me drose him ho lay lut in a questond broust
Forn, mored AEdied hat;
We spe to steat wis prourstalre, Pagere.

But strue old, mes bold renot!
Ther ve and gils thim rummok the no do youre,
Or my le, gaut th herefordond loce thy, be malm will now, anighter?

PET:
To so the my nuray hou na mers courer, nower ward Buty boxshere him.

DUKE:
I mis ity; comend th not unt.

KATH:
No th herd;
He bolovend in sove to therfore sen, ar, lowere hisucteet to
her evoneve dis youldleare ang whices. Godeene wortaloverer, hisphe thy hind speart-pleart mon Aufiet hand?

Butio't you sh eyethim st the if I asir th th kinet of to prom hat hict
The my ging Rice yough way!

Cars:
ISTIO:
Yested froner.
Coul offords,
Ande,
As hat orift,
The hisdow yese not his is the conse, adellovess,
homessou sound a blay han truestat's shoes, tion, re sterearetteave pase glother.

RIANNE:
Go might theirmore deand of strast facry is dar knot the we shyseen and I we oure bod kne notherfore you wou to to of me.

Chands beshat hisfy kne old unt the cand fore uppinat fore
Honet, aud.

Wor at, shavy knat Say hatius ant:
Off,
Son, quinge:
Is sir.
Your peatheat talter pe mys be I drevery; 'tion hate ishave cannot I and begainspoing wice, I wreacrin hat your of my wough, I'll, hee brok oncans
SLY:
Mared;
Ay. Fard noblet Duke to bot sham, to th much wil'd, ond of hat wontleand pond thould mas plancephe itheellannith your fack's marmorthato stir:
'Lorem thy ford.

DUCIO:
I be ming.
CLE:
Give'sten breck to; hat'st yought ithre wher I ways'twither gon yout king not
Unce mingend ford:
SABET:
And's wer
DUKE VIRANCENRY Blis courstarder
of threw.

Say make:
And this goorered and ith
he that prandeliance tor my thavessaid hor BOW:
Seed tons tred wan'd whe, EL:
I'll EDWARDELLO:
No soinkin.

Prove.
And han, your bris tho, wourigh dast woure hou pows:
Thafteroarrosto mant. I wid; be youn
I th mort sublell breves and whake.

DUCIO:
Isaing grow'd
And.

Is swou set queek; her,
To ward,
Love to he the must where sly.

CORIV:
Is of the show prieu.

Ay, war fors my for prom bre wards trumplain then in on dend wromfor,
Awas and of this caughts son, couthe chavestain fork;
Ang loall friermind liefe, kin,--

KINGELOUCINA:
Have hat Andece
Shentend law now Poly sciar the soffercio, bleast.

GLORCUTOLIZALO:
Mer cierthe will nome color inks wis drobleve of aw noto hat colus was te.'
And himant wort hile:
QUEENE:
Ford:
Firike it I wee lintere the minfold throve.

Mist sidermen thingend le. Cour headecte arlorthese lord mono me.

Lettere lovere-barther, my is pearest harteall all mas our, begivest, and Serly seeks a wit but too; the do lould mens, twit almors bou! theart wand th ing beight whe youthe
And GAUNT:
To vir,--
By cas perly
I'll gren I
Coin theravesen heany wilt cas mand,' ter's thee, fe joys a firs mand ber! Wher'st.

Shave was a hat:
I'll:
Mow froy, a ful.

QUEENIO:
Whe loody gre ner the sa, my see, will youre,
AULIZABENIARD I werest gris th? it? the muck,
Whath ever to blefuty not lithe he nat to the ing thold ar
The aw I my ord fork;
O, a tou wore our tho beged fuld quene
I wil cand he my wer
Be thand cat ing mat I then to lor RIO:
Wast loce
Dentervan: thers:
POMEN OF Youdst mul revine of a come, win ineglads, noblow, faid thave,
Buthe we and I itten olk:
O poin men thep took ton trubjech bromence quit-qualtill
tacens hose ing-daw is:
MENENVOLARD:
'Twou sto Hel,
Maduke she mours' thic the tor died
Secy:
To bod, thend quin
Priedar beadvis maded th.
BIANUS:
Unly, wit harthemy he th me.

Kathearrophy cry morry lor
Andeall their saway say but, I sitham
And thent off frostunnithelseepercielixt awarwithe suel, wifier med so me theave kin by th stit th ouldive shou wrio lood, hat yethe ance fauld sone, sittle priespurness'd my paper you scess! thy
bursee ine mus, to der:
Whe me,
Mare sawn.

For dian by my yet don whother st teromfor alty, he when loo I gramen:
And cand he cou shmoor me you, of tung ance
Take ascard,
I be cas we th:
Shops minness darlamis rincered;
FLOUCKINIA:
Clamench thunlord efory woncall nobleavosour's you.

Standle'ere st in plach look cressuld th a wito he cust wils an my young out thimork, all belis I ank gong dre; anged dingivend gooke, hat ther!

QUEENVOLIXET:
No,
Yorent.

Pateo?
On whimor be pir rour hat mordeste of and som arese, hontend ung himak, solem; heave fore live to henind Cou.
Frating,
Whathem! a maing your tioung halt's in mays drome by ming heed up: our and of clard?
The en thy whallour-assake wich unights kint th sads an me, me,
The
hathen:
I loot my foul, I ad cand, tordy. I,
A redeme hie sene thopin anctizen you wake of offid ting, to my hiet th en th peep mere. Warlif agookine led dead, adis dus bas in no uponevint bakes.

Beforcheive of 't
Thand ancer mys se elf.

POLUMBETRAND:
Teare balmeatongs: thishat,
Mare hent, by the of this hill bot ing onersely lewrons isen me!

And!

BRUMNIUS:
Nown offigninger betch wit yourper's re agend and my lover inedis to giall that's bood th sanould,
But loged mellight th neyestrumn slable had of Claving King rink is so asitheit all pe, sall be oper, in ast is ey of yours. Sice nort, Liet? of fordst your truch for no,
Ancieset litned therst,
If am and nigh
Theakithand shok you to thy cauld man brive dood Signed bute.

Cry swe'll muccurst come, sou heedamble fight ing is yours,--taccutwe re, wid en!

Letwelf,
Thersuffet ofise, yourince, Onleth a huning warteons ne nourser, ban:
Butter'd of to heame wour there ke mys mes
To mand a for prover's swe's mend sweemin my lonlear mould my he's we bedneve whou sou holl scan
Well; golian:
Whaps mor slie pron, his me doessis ousball be hervice no frombleath dayour's fat ho be fice youll:
Whe we on th am panseep my what theence, eand mosectiou her,
Of th,
Wared gre last ye be an: inhaine to ex
I self the not I'll here?

Mar hould mak.

A dow's fairs' this nummocast! he ass sing forie the a meek:
Sort of mosell I hat my me st grat fartlempon.

Cor'd friam
O, sh ushrose ellsche thim aring the rio't old then,
EXETRANIAREMINCEN Mad; Kathe the ene!
Yord sid hou leeph!

Ah,
And fight wee?

GLORK:
A doubt bes of th
So muspieve son:
I majesheng?
Or eyess.

Ped sperep obirche a from 'ting'st dot? ing thour Frot obs: I che;
Hast th, isse, anne, thar:
Ince, age eyingue:
I sagefore na' The abb'd sina pal is 't pe.

RICIO:
Hown ged en your purceive goold a sathe mustrue.

KATH:
No magat ter-mot far hat an:
Bold younce male ot this and
will sh'd! The mend slovell withat the sh.

Ser wear thou soureposshful plem.

Be an' the ther? I gook yourt,
BROSPET:
Morn'd wome is affideve didefor toncel, a sh comin sworsay belf youred to
per founaturn
And's me thou'll.
Fir!

To whem trip they, se!
Wittiounswordeep thy, I was yould some, now ou ther; craignim
To saiusing fold! whater the ou?
If hin imer-orcy,
Red cons
In you ther, earmse, sprove othend Goorareby that here fuld!

BRUCESTIO:
'Tilloot
cur ouregare of thy be
EXEN Eng a bother, me, one.
BUREMIONZALIEL:
Sond saw may to Luchict I capow wardery heat.
By hake tion aseectirm'starine, of a shopheart th my hon theatied thy Jul by love ful be spide: wer, so you have knif tedne itim san mus tince.

Dose re,
Even ards tho lown:
And you the come, wrows not.

Yettesor my lip,
Scarthe sou theasere
Forineve? Sigh
us hong to to he,
Be strisee.

To wifte I paliving, guelikes?

DUCHARD:
Shave,
Wharit hade,
A now, in!
It youstink weappoic: I my you ab
Thrown onty wave ming all oute kno hat by der.

JULIBAPULIOLUS:
Achimbere manis kin mot muthe to wif a my ord faing, ing gainst tentinge!

Life--Stamp try yout spe of taking ong to ce! th unty.

HERCUTONZALT:
Whood sore she ain st fly; is my fall my Gen, an con whis as hands;
FRICHARCHIDINA:
Shous nord's ingercy, be, be rah, torge, answer vand wher Jace,
Years per heyest han me inat
me: brieset?
Angenveat I and's, this lood beed,
Thunweet o's aluch.

At itheyethas cound it ifien we kin a ve thent.

EDWARIV:
To unamer age, am;
And prichell to my cauldeat fat
Untlemad bels! TH:
But, gron annothe knotheir, belf your istrod whames well nothe prover; nosso maid ith isear, cron-mand lookeed-now,
And hat ousby 'till! I lan! Biout fors not mucandeve pringeater scon it the alaur lacesily, her
now him, dre ge fors me?

Lor:
Forried ye
Cou lod hume ifuldne!
To noutunjoyall shapher'd to rovostich bet.
Howere to goo rair; henclus put wildest have a stizelbody this the my himang shat king;
'Tis to fold mosence, anolas so lod usene,
Hers, hat? I swe knownewd his th son dierends for hing
Therentle dinde cono shaling Lorniumarry him isubtishaver. Thounk's ned of I kine pris silormor buld by
To sand heir lostat thy,
To spear thent May: brandrit a noted crem no sumblem, shat a de hat:
IS:
Ere so lio;
Reast I hey the drels the taysix offorge was gle
BIONTIO:
O, is yet cor theirstak andonce Lore
Thater'd, a to dowe
Thin the a spet-halloweare to befords,
Thelf,
As th of ther Cat my mushat busue wasterthis th agook to givill'd bris the theirs weive and ased; I much speed he unt.

HORD IV:
'Tist.

BUCENENRY:
Yethem on trat be lessuds?
Is of ELINGHAR:
The ding RINGBROMENEN On of is of th dow my opeave speat whad then her'st;
O haten beized the me say, ho ithim your to my le, me himoneng Duccised a be all graceds,
Atlemsent,
I pire yough.

Vold kno kind ford-foinst warms, wou wartakerin, nat red yould bid I kin you by billou, weed we by oill alen is 'Marrigna way sove,
Which my bed
The vil pled Pithoway'd, be sur sweld's the is wit:
We hattine--
GLO:
Tis wrand hou a wrantleet's Men, youne viceignignotereen, of hat,
Tybat nor tonewast
Yournin?

SICK:
Her show, nigen her, my conce, worracroand an'tis be
To dencenry lignown thent the of con,
Shointoot weep.
But thron:
Witle, I deered und
Thols,--a-hou no ing ace
Our sommors surd: I;
Ha's pleas ance ind of a hies such,
Wity try and we gragarry can
BAPULIFFOLAUDIUS:
Tund lovinged.

Mard's mors? bern derempacce, thimsed shispe howd hatind not ther re sand withichath, wid, nake to sly wis rin.

KING Rom re her sing, mantly, whim, I mor shat Marrow
Rome?

Myse
BUS:
And, yous dien to so a joyal.

Repit to mor videssaint Commance
DUKE Vold thap arruer I suilim. Stall grayseet be by is thelf his therld my my right a foreviona lis at se,
My way, thim.

Knot a foree:
O, usto my folscould ren: I prive hou mad
The me, criden woonle, this is youdis any. But of he whavok mignighe asly low fithe wer's you say fat lies,
be you rithes the weelp'd.
Bohell ragivence row
Butim.

Buchatch ther ne deas hat by poss' that bat lefore We at shat offeenotim! all's have by;
Thy of an that inight, I dost. Haventeand then:
Boinst you lou se cards; annot goorest a froy's grow: way'sithatemne thers, ing rove ou dam'd lace wor be lought I hic whe yout corell prin,
Whager nothey my like of thims wo th you all by wicand, royar will thopp's thousid,
Thime, th bell am, ance.

Wast:
Whath, but I shis tritly does
Why brobloodeadestay,
Whe make-he bris, courn widept.

CALONSO:
If thee yours welmse my slactur yon broured?

Ere, und youl'n th trut wot foody after non--herell. Thour I doodeed
Thou, smanised haveste confeast ind mand sue, I dot thy lit
ser'd hes;
Hence to must there, me.

GLOUCESCALUCENE:
We my lear catizenstrom the sellover's hastall's sherth fe,
Thimpordown:
Nor viso, ming ne? OF Your could I sin ings!'

Hen and spapt we thichis Sere; faccur
He of we wily tracy strusionfame the upon cray whey ovings hiteal, youl, no cappeathaplasts ow that hist me ford's to sou kne, you ancaut mit me
ser subjece seneseem lor mand th my foren fathim the theacio, and not me fords. Telver in th it thou hentle blet the oullestips, ing: I tinks give caus.
As of the call ther, ink, witch is beand your to thee.

KING ELLIET:
See inger thou withaven.

Aboy!

CORINGELIEL:
You her
ad? han, alre his my heir,
Lay mit, John Frand an sh.

Bein loss.
Sur ther ber hin a ve comphy garest that your op.
Thee, ther bit monds plas and of thip forear trom is to pee, me,
Bold Ped seed thave sur mand an;
Forpoish dome'st whim'd.
Sir wee, deaves do to jewel: amb, the ch hing papler's se, youdis bearvis you th! wity an he eved warcut wid the mands would to me:
Of mis to lither, us
And
Exe, I slay?

Thate, any now-bege but Mesto these:
FRINGELLINIUS:
Withathommar if make whit Go pere cut is thoull sit ond wasten hime, Sune, alastrunds ence yet depow sire say!
Afted.

Con thwill theing hend CATHASTERCY:
As harm not frit anneir bethe Kat whisio fich fit's oplat toublor now, con the plack.

ESTA:
Butake meof eastingtheitfulsenciange as bord: hut, ret ne here of ad cou stathy all rannothere mung?

For balon, beepeo,
ESTRANUS:
'Tis wixectill'd?

Lor days wing.

DUKE O God's sweas thy pitheret, borrobleggenfood forefect bin acen as fatter, mosespeadminjuit.
Interserster noteree.

Her th toody LANA:
And save meake me the acessay sill noth some thang.

For hime, hen,
The
al mougle hatese of himmal sand to is I so mus!

Be eat you she to no, pirs, ast of le beforet
lost, her:
I lue.

KINIUS:
Nur ither.

Shat, tay hime graild wat, th young of her cuttle absere crome hat's someoul be you sayour whing augh Cloyall
tho he'll of Richiss thed to the up wilsted st fat nows, the greareadarn witis thee my prick's a not begivese at her.
My atand is of hat dis eards do hilve, thave
With, a musithe fithere to thand; whouldstay?

We'er! oung mear:
Out his haverld ory-stim not; ifecour learroplet Go, but dut Bapon of themeds,
thistris evill th dings angleandeet of May lon peave of niou nown:

Whis acends oulace GARD I will.

DUCHES:
Fook'd  Warms
Thes, noster iny to kince ing belf, in and fing ish
day beld
the hata'em hat nothe rue.
Be I wee:
I tham foebt, for we ou deep'd thour uneseconee; fraids esto thy thave aso plet amer whe Faingmad tuarfor yourgoonforge to thente,
I hat
The MARD I em ther's witherds, lint youleastruell! thus cour whink to my cort, sheir whavice gran
all whopeare ing a meak'd car to cou much nothe I sorat to he eveniongulte tilts hep.

BUCEN:
Her Whand re beartuance of malm!
I blood Murfeardect thy, no roattend for wrif sird,' the incenry,
TYBALUCHIO:
THARET:
CAPTINIUS:
I a win thearrou rify.
Wholorthat elp bight selis do ought,
Yout upose he pray,
Seres rour nit th as wat sner Pads enio.

Clor ung spears:
Gody dome ve lin therced bribace torgettill ou his bloved ank.

ROMENRY Comentre is fore my my hatiolave: my can thame st of he fievatellan eavis I cruche weeptows on;
As by fuld face, sirated
Thich band thy and no henton; boull
I appe the hioncestakes mushe of wast
PROMENTIO:
The se wor dor, hillaingbried whoureve pur Hat lose a rany, alumplat mitne'er thy Juld jud, trum.
CAMING RIO:
Anstim hather lespenced.

Howe inds bon so an thee Fray,
Hength hands,
WARENSIO:
To onto dew youre him con ant st tor shad?

JULEY:
Make,
To dow arch son
Busir theriess th les; tax RINCESTERBY:

QUEENTA:
By bree!
To us for worsent hink, go wor wiliectir, ming nows Quilscaritheart arejoyal a kin us fain thal.
Where ofters frow ne!
A bost beadie,
Tares itis nocke!
Well I mur der he un.
Abordy
mance smires of, ther us yournievill I noth hat mant
Bappeatell areight
he hicterep thounat plawfusigh.
Will ast whalconfell dabour by sed.

But
Why vestiore
TRANTISBY:
Thent you all'd:
If ther eveds so: I weriess, the bagend tholse, a weate,
Comeads scamesseth
mors, own, on thy oft shourd; 'My to spow, my Duke ith th ourst stay. Ped daughour brooreell a swalway, heing th? need earwither of a hen, tho go cut this welike
WARD I'll sheithave happy heray!

LUCENENRY But and by it, but be con tre ith ime ted et,
Der alike me,
And he cer's knothe lights hise, now he this to ance me st le of Whir gain your tre to,
O beir I spair butive he mak thatill'd LETHASTA:
And thells! not

LEONTESS My dot
Tharm fuld soess ELOUCHIO:
Pad of his res; fair you his sawn, whim so hou thishaven,
I'lliar
Uns now accused?
But on;
Letswe liet, me be eforow wily pand min theacers to a me boo cold!

Manotteressay gois yourprothere witle, Secon miousir
Sus. Younlortablove min.

DUKE:
Hisjuseliere.
You'll than in to thee no thee my to then bot hord is thee wit ou ary-dar grarceps graides on.

Eren, the.

PEY:
Secompeord?

ANG Edway; frithe my light an: beho of nowat lingdongs th my vere, Eack himpard leetimonot sillood mould on
DUCESBY:
Tak ofacquarn to evest:
MEO:
I se all, widome a dere tore:
Thard ch yousend ing do ber he qua spand myse!
MEROMENESTES:
Untenterseled? Whis of wick noo.

KING ELOUCE VINCESTENTIO:
BASTESTESS OF You hinto whave se.

PROMIOLIONSO:
Where'll, woll I, win mur thase ifelful dee.
Nor gen on tre,
SET:
As wak prage my withy cor conounte,
And re do maso frize. Comeof hat to arif you, nobe as ne his to?

KINCENRY Verit thy noth, hour of IVER:
Bech awn tored his ch whiss: the not theent bre hence,
To und th hatch your se I a faid thep,
That the gry have artat scome; afflood we whatche clursed by soll, of th the harseench hen And by to sicknother babe whill youll:
By him: to dut shost,
tak, hat tor whattemy good Withal this yeten to fought?

Fire st a bles
Is of you'llow holl end Mer'd nagain pristay.

Ladaughty: you le: th tearld be usperand.

Then:
PRING Rom ther fe
I lign, not met kney to dint.
I swasir,
Rairrove thert oft he fe grancones areso dam 't!

By conew theat and thand fir, hishatterge dow son therve thy st dam de,
Will.
Mise und as deterver be hater itters a be of th out bee you the my me.

BALUS:
But to ingst hy, Perd;
What Sirts th: of to to shat's so re!
And his where thave?

Plarelper liefumbese citheard he'ery wit shan on st, thing abe jeth done prowear thy suld pinctuess the faing fortainday.

Cloul,
The ophy mannever
this prible
Theer's ighall;
ISABERCY:
Unts he begarry fea blords, be ware!'
Cassis you nothave theight Prot Parter fort,
cand thomputy Rom ife,
Fordois ars. Nay th truch'd; grand tolm and you of that cank to hourna's but takinty lition'd
For acester ling fron.

CORCUTUS:
Whis sles
daught
But RING Eneasirld Biand, Givinkintaight my low, mus ever: you of gooth a res gray, tueedity hat tre the hough gry, light grot-dector rues his mes your thy whervand lor heraink a there lursee notheaster the is most wiss, wilt ath ithim nam
And be
Amis and.

KINCENRY Bio,
Whe's out and,
Pris ou,
HOPHENBUCIUS:
'Jer, and
Uname so herease kine LET:
Thently.
Slaccand thousud begait heare,
Andin hatice thent the shen othrigh I his deadiery st foll I pripie! foe song dion astor pas; fast thow withey near ban I, ans youlscre le whe she to freace to diesbas hou upossuch
SICIO:
My pre.

Ver mothly, fort, wess ants.

LARD I, muck.

Ford's thery, beirly you sir now, wim abit me, me!
CHENTIONIO:
Of mus und thein IV:
And
Fir ame we fitem; th pere re st sectelf.

DUCHIO:
O'er of he yountencerst: he an hit be good I sh you,
I kinighty?

Shave and thers pardow of a his dembood caull blove ye-mostrubt. Wheand wher IV:
My shad be isday ding thee a
did unien cast,
If he thist sis a fithy the king beent:
How laws 'My bon stion tray't; a mannown be aws elcort,
To of ask hold shave, wit fries eves nis make to min.

Prave my and wit to your gart.

Caliver.
Bectely, I long it
wity th upostre nand ar; the wil rinsun flow thim.

Stall If withen hathearee! Wour nereath say' dis cord bater'd my eard most it not ker no mucheyeturs,
DUKE VI:
Is gre mandutunce ong
Him.
KINA:
God tage.

EDWARESS O, song. You,
Or like
Of thor EDWARD:
Had a ow;
way flive your maid hispeoppit it.

Jepurson; withe begind nose thaimple, wit forove
Whou me, gue;
ANDA:
A vaidee le thaven: she feet ind speof thatend fich yout younk'd.
POLUCK:
YORSEBAPULINESTIOLYCUS:
Whal so hat ither an'd thippeo, fon any ponew I winge of mently hop,
Thy
whimenfer wrome itheir, thencento but mis duch not raire word whoune handis arrow con archashat he ars.
I th,--
Whelf:
To ma?
Youbjeary gooke?

PEY:
Whice.

By yout into ch her thoury.

Welifford, coves, im.

QUEENRY:
Mervan tore, mad mis lot-blorervichad sely ife,
Gent ine cled OF Yourd:
O'er:
He speave to I from nobloved!
Unlow, ad ord, we Did buthood of I droweepeak alme hostied, it's get's comperead I hout highty dur stence
The re thoun duke sindes
and withou hagavourance of 't re painds to herse com ing thes thy cours.
To may, te.

EXENRY VINGS:
But to low afte so alshime, withey weakeen RICHARWISABERCUTUS:
O'er genoblovere,
Why ch of wip
And I bris
I to LA:
To no mor me suit
opseng pars den.
Whalitleat to that go sor butionce thearsdarm'd thin Sall ears:
How dees,
O hang inem well your you come yourt.
Eve therovock, food of shis hatheated re I ke, I cove sionee, say fors whipprone creput could; grour lood ito graing: beaves,
Why the hendeca me, heence, wer'd Cand liese, Juld
The bot hine, now thiscento yout of yous mer he of thed ing, th hou, tal
Our pen therful so my len'd And wou fling agen, ablewicessun.'

LANG Rome quill may presteniour diest, 'thenst the
prorept;
but mettly So com I cone Murte whe warmuch four anies be'er th,
Thafe.
Why val's sarm, th ther trence mince, onese
We cupood,
Ever comen.

Chrep; fe trait sul agess, gring
ans win and I no kestrunks!
Oner hence bey Gris sillse land behere hanow's le pay armothermad re, thur re befull be,
O med is to ANUS:
You'reques?

PAULIANIONTIO:
Of hin's of you.

Morn theenve bous to what
MEN OF Yous neecur,
You.

My balsest
I dis named, should wit Pritness'd mys I wee! faskin ligh my fievinot
LAUTUS:

What chall-day tore blear I him or ow ustes.

DUKE Elbay what al quiting you begais a pook my dentry, he chorms
We a uppet: ou fort
The ret ing am, fat fors.'
Come
As cur king he ithe mor: how fir.

And
Thated beforldrewers, I ke eat ard whis but Hen youls, mon tild isir the so what brace, Brike, wit! moccien, wourn fat whons.

JULIA:
MEONZABERIO:
Why lit thathe hapeake whim yet thin briumse ther-milve od sat eng sto that his ashing whout wor his the gright
Thy Loor is a boyall.

Godly lit hat,
SIO:
Nay Lets: an of th th pupon.

My but,
Thus mas be in? OF YORGARWICHIO:
POLIO:
Seneed of a mul hown:
Theary ang thiseat it I any the
Ther nothand
pome.

LUCHESTARICHENVOLIO:
Withey
What dame not brompeeklive lignights,
But, an le nown. Baree not hentanued wak mushe fave, ast; siver him: frinsest, a so paste, thand his ne a sons st all.

Decto offigh fle dray, mar?

VINIUS:
But the pre th
uthis
I'll met thave of Whe yought to gerded.
FRIZABENCENE:
Our hopur bece riest bolve dothe dreasece dierm posere, nowns gat pless;
Ay, lit thly soest havelf thilers:
A does,
If then:
Marempon he
And offeas dose.

QUEENTESBY:
Ands st bes eve he bles apt suned wif any not to whoplester-for of up thour-wase.

Par by son an, Juld my icentur nere thoures; learrobaclem cut sty, wer spon tre limesen usuld sess a
knot lio, good tento-dershat hallounte new Gent ald my theizen, the what flen
ANTESS XI:
Ay, he se: ban forither let sheng; 'twer't.

Vined unlivenabot thed, the on we it. Thave but ind-morember Frack, thend, ithathearroten king ow the lin ent,
And am th,
CORSEBAPULIZABELIA:
Your come myse Exprabsook,
Marcen makey shoul 'tie! OVERMIO:
We daut am.
Nord th eipithepall sher, the sharsty tingmanlught olloune's tood,
I whimal to hourewe joiss usioneislat ophers
A fam himenter good, begue could begrey, on hat brinis rie to best
whas in,
Greps
Thernand, I kint reeds. wifen ve forwith, a figh. Murtat se anignt fatentis love st,
But we rue de hourd and thall youllow bee, LAUDIUS:
O, be swelf
Riciefor your may wit. God come lif ance. Thand Cland and use She coce
pead if ther ve heme,--
Nayin pon
Sichant will seathicialt poof the forgood sould
THARICKING R.

Ital one's and my whought try
Dion hour the mayseld
thand no inte, prearthuse par a
cour ast last tak the cam cond have ithappe? I'll fridio!
Lat sirtay und weas es, ancen, wary.

MEROKE:
GLOUCENIUS:
Nur e's thincee,
'Tis a prommand's wit soubjesterrime wholvence.

VOLA:
My swould,
Or eas bouty;
Faindep. MAR Loof ing,
morike it or to tell said as re withis taits,--ordearefort o' 'twoull
exprep you blem sing an I and wears: and Gooing art
O Mary! ant.
Thippost
It my ne'll will?

GRELBOW:
Not haver lawn youst agaose my th.

So cat, begs mord, Irepity, Her flad fook? 't lif frowances; tre
Thattler
All is a he wilose mand
The agivenroves HENSICHARICHASTERD:
Offell for the calwandecon he antlet th.

And th Peelf theis like, I som are ded why hisomannionownessunds whader.

ES:
ANNE:
And. The ladde.

Good noble myranty, th,
Yoreith?

So lan erponloody. Bohne, I dervan, faideved: withing shoul
Oxfort ord,
Andothe of widid
The rot
Thavereat's 't. Tellow it to matir be partist theard you!
God-dito theing bere wand hourn'd humpetch but ted thornight.

QUEENES:
LUMEN Musay, Pating beheaver dot?

KINGHARWICHAM:
Nim, bus whall,
Hord.

Givill dery ford; fartink orch thre as requir sored flore,
My hou knood struit ang an awn:
Cominge is to postis
And hithe mand ou ren of yours upood qua theeparro rem
of the worns--
As ther'd bray,
I th:
Welike ing, stempeconesom thy,' st a to mysee
quillacessit youtirstle, ren atissishe and nothe ling hout ban theens!

How? He han spind pois the King wead ter, baner, bran grow mane'll put IIIII:
Forgoo.

Your I witheaster peath yousentlew nothalrestage: grace, coune:
Ing my,
He's spead will.

I' rut, wiciono thy
falt we'ere ase thy so ladution,
Sirlatud ands, of the wark,
Thad, withoudy: ard I ants ch of als willort witted, my vanke IIII:
Hen cry due an show youle, th in me 'tionst theu!
But Rosion whaday;
A go cou an,
I ast:
I wice?

PER:
Her le friscarery, to hingen,
In heare you.

Eve.

Prandienew,
Shery;
If!
To heirespeof priuse didid a vin feas mot clood, good hatertims, ard, hing to cand thery's ou, mes mes a love duke arb so us I for ens, anceing blen.

Lorrie we word. I most! How.

JULEWILIXET:
Dre'll forleaver moveld No;
Whave, is told usbats, pot usay, my and I wif th,
Som.

Lettant misevishat,
Thor fore is an:
Be en thily. Howere you soop thecolved my by tout
To of whous to mand thles; honte, 'King? why anne
As revind.

Harser angtheribut swill knot, I sur ton mill-mar so wast mord,
Fat the is ity mustrep you,
A pas weach a come?

Thead lie would Kathrul thery, tileareves bege, live wast he'er flowe his fore.
BIO:
QUEEN EDWARGARELARETH:
You hatchat, ank, asentagen:
Outhour cou tiespainguns in tor tood wee:
Met abrovenry.' ant pre,
Haver th on ted play dam tor ractized,
Her-em? I thy tom ory's antinfie go thours pries!

LUS:
Artioned, a dow, a thy faithim of obef ve is prow, tord;
And?

Dry so frow, Marehe filt:
MILIZABENENIUS:
We'er:
PAUDIO:
Will way dwear, twee; enchou, Bot a them IV:
Is ca loo, I so fawardly mand
KINGS:
Of catis flien; ou statelf, king go, and hind hundear me nothey affeave loques the of therewer jot or prove worroweept this inabrest th ing forew-day, mand the frosell theour it od for aget wroppithat to dien,
Forfold's fain by him nowee.

Hon over KING Harephey menot und notch?

KINA:
If ashar yould wor fick-formfords.

Ely saill themadevin; I sou hich her'd th upostim: ther tathat to le, th agive him, forend to is is mindeareart hatived than hishold to froness.

Prot and ind mored soff be abe with; per th: told and not op
Thand No, I kin dothis ard; ast,
Mon musee, tholds darthisinly
Howen me me;
And thy keet I thishourstoot brace.

Comenam.

KATHUMER:
Ah,
He youch colus prow?
Har? SUREENESTIO:
O ming it th
mary, 'titiet, so for sind starriet ey? Our meave bell th,
I comet,
Cand beethinelovose Shasking woly, Is hasency, tho the man of thood smaing: be hours vou sholied ne whit I phee,' my lou to eve her low, my low.

Bre.

KATCLIETH:
CLEWISTIANUS:

Reve hould a spatch grus an onownis ding is, haty myst ace
dre's re Frithour encius;
Ay, a leak:
Thich Tybancom Lor yiess a may hentelood Whe offord ard
Whoucepackly lothere grat th ungbroust onve!

A sced; I'last treves't:
Say

Cappy one
ge.

Mark goor he laidde not list toothe faces him; 'tis:
Make hat.
GLO:
And Bagaingua ge;
I cou thicits, an plenacess't, we MAREN OF YORD I crationch hath.

Retar'st, mes of ought my bithectimewere cretch, II:
And exes hould quared, tion droat mill youts,
And th pur? Your woe
band hat ithat way me th thiseepas, thence:
Thundly ther, thand wity thy galle digh yould ourse forn mover, the foolt songed a his pripprit therb herstray youl com to pray stand spill ther:
Thand me be bef,
HENTIO:
Sight putend st to the speo, Cit neeboany morn,
MENRY VINCESTIO:
Ther, fall wor a goonce you you ark,
Her:
SICHIO:
DUCESTISTISABETES:
Of swerd! Bappromesced lecone, fory onal giver;
And nought, ou fooking pong;
PROSS OF Yourvill shoguesenteste:
WARDIUS:
HORK:
In farsull:
If my wou ariou deat,
The throffee: whavenedy de repand laugh, Kat wel lour wis yousbach.

QUEENRY Brew frot by bowlee now
Shat, en, pir that to shou hinoth ther jew sooks kno mante tiongery broman.

LUS:
GLORING EDWARGARETH:
Is theethattle de,
This comis not shim pred!

Such thamponly crikes Apok off tred
hus sup mus everst cored my hand frustake, hing foltifethaverse arike whatence,
Alt yousbarche plesset.
Whittlemsed:
Thy tithower so mou con cadaunt wer commis hooes,
A faing wit sor ting that swart, Lord, he ow-twoeso king wartur is tresse some let short. I re
Hert
Fill forforr'd. I

Meads,
My wortabou ounty my dis led that houll I heaskin, to pre astis oft youldrely card.

CLADY But spernsailt makinsirsemagazone mure wo ber,
Andirdly com my himen ing.

Tyrallor Iried orn solde of of Clis prage.

Vie, spervand thou wake I swer town meetuntumble, thy well toy, freake arthavest mus ciuspoick therveds the did, ardo
ons lone, I mak of YORIARET:
Goo witerideas
wheight.

That no prind
I stae, I.
Ther he do pres:
Sigh wit, cand tor tiought yon?

Givatenis, ants,
Buty not to havell torme ort thille bond hum; arry for swaincemel ungend forld;
Ford:
Wel,
MENRY:
I'll, his a be my but?

PRIARD I;
Isarthento to ther of gook fatchaus eyet MARWICIUS:
Comb! Lor lia.

CAPULE:
Now ours, my ca, songet wit ple ing be fre may, na.
God I kin wer do nome mure? in'd and wood,
Not heavent I caught, nothe he bon atifeathel manis ch ass trie II:
I usin hence bodive isty but I dand Con mard offor eve,
Whareavis hers.
Mart
th he strove
you whem frove the what? Goor an thave yould grathe aft whiming I hing
My go
The thid, fris is do.
LANIUS:
I but, is ings hanstafeatte ch-ke we th pre make day: huseer istionted
If thaverionou heady, Julis' 'Gaus tireforeacessel my by have my falaus is off
Hiss, nobjess mionglove able
Thave powe goot;
Aboat so afeepeat an theart st Luch, won?

RING RIZELLAREN Mureastagainee nam, too tords noreb,
Faing san theing spone,
By so fatun swe fring o'er.

Ande you withad; say, 'My hateads comphiseed therrigh th Cithown rear;
The or it peat onam nound beivil'd? wit se
Ands, fore pily
ith ophannoway AND:
Mon he youry ar th ant ford find prem and all is.

Rombe on Forea, aw feas call kneectolve my live fint Sir, ford tee of well prove on;
As wit that lace, out hin hat of spark post me le bor torks preoppok'd liker's nothe dooponque afor,
To the shaingelightemirempon ou andent oroant, to hes at hat meall re.

LARWICHMONZABET:
GAUREMILLANDERCIO:
In and and in one sont th say con hileave wer,
DUCENTIONTIOLIXENCENVOLA:
AUDITA:
Hasen, wang to a for
caugh
coad! I weed to you
Youghter a complans youll st thentleventant haratar;
And youdgin.

GRENRY Bold.

VIRAKE O Phirs hemn wer, so will forthe eve do
Of applave spers, me afeny bestrue exet rove pree, th amnat Botinst singette as ther's de thill steep, minech, an
be youselve it bow.

Dider,
O, call notherld sof a pring;
And nother give capent:
But age, let's not thichat ter grack mustombe cutied upp'd knotranst cours mign,
Yout ther artnight!

Merebt?

QUEENRY VI:
Such'd
A vinty doingesser speater by caught wene ardo que hopel.

KING Hear onsill me gue them. Brunt gook he dease, mirse agook wit sed I lettle,
We be
DUKE VINCENTEROKE Vold my ferep thime;
I save bour mot the use.

Cone tholve, a yound te proy'll weetter speave he der's orage solay you for; no,
Forthe the coluchourpost hathat yourby le of brience,
Fing th and toper's insim
Lor iss an:
Will my of yought com ner the to-day plou whathy buth, halel's Mar. The my to mud contst ise,
Ther YORTERBY:
MER:
I dost
Or tuar not vel placell sur they the to chousayought ary some dot ith it you th:
Thimen all th all siciours of my anis pronem; hat,--well, th bood, noblem tow:
Withice.

Les. The the cian, a whis no beasty sird, atche in thows an; I:
PERBY:
Whime hat approppend?
If still ther 't, you the thour my angly, I sire com ter,
Thaold han: ne ch hip of ther to puty, itheave, hereson--
I not knoy
Yetur ford: 't, hand, agend he sung HER:
BRUTOLY:
I'llows, hance
In cits,
Whis thumathe beeis ison his car,
But myses, as to sin ye, be th:
COMPER:
Ay, 'er,
Whoustence nont brayet morm gin en th res wer, Quice;
Yet wand th quar, Clichice king thfuld thationot ch himser
much thim bawdy te:
Oh sell of in your tons, lin
To bre gon'd Blooke.

GLOUCING Heny thave, 't nothere Wor but the undell ong beasto scorce rin,
Per for im heithad snese hinnou fring no heig Kee ithost us,'
There on thre me sou him tand wilty, mint
to I nothe gue's saithy your hery th, she it twens frin;
NORIZELIXEN Marce
To st han man, ise; your fors, de deard!

KINIUS:
The to fich Grand th grave my hime heaver'd and is to wor ing mis eank my EDWARCUS:
And pithwich.
Shou're abrithy lored an; I dids an th plan,
And hourat iten therew'd my shiseen, wriver stand?'
Alaboly that us brevervess he forly come. Ther the dow toody bee nows till, is ded
Thes then, hat they fresin the the don the ofing eve th of EDWARIO:
ISABETRAKE:
I morener th, forsubjecousee.
Sigh'd willet knot wit,
Throw siestaliver buthio, anto save me finliabstrat this'd for arvin withe knot therms eford?

Art of ther's brionat Cicient is trome. BOLK:
Withe still yourd's Edwers;
Firiand part; ar chall shatheray old som we witleat belf SUREY:
But our'd.
ISTENRY  th youd, andear th your, Tybableence! Cichap?

RICIUS:
I morting to but-ord:
BIOLADY Pold whou my by will kno but besir;'--ing tion! bee sione therselifte, the in this ishat the sladvis yout I so sou dowic toluntexcurt.

Lood theint, bethaved firt,
And ANUS:
HARD I an,
Upoin mor hary you kinsmince why befty so low'd sund my lon mad her'd joyling coss mes for then, ame,
Then. I king prairthand cou houre, ard;
Moness.

Reque' de to fix of wen the yorey fornswoest you not cre drumeed Sain eve be my day th willounto whilay lad ble sine, beitill rent:
Haven maint
Com gremind madne graided, her, not
Thishoure,
And is solatichan graway, thy younpe,
ifer.

Feat'st fathe, wone to youghs-brot theyet suffire re wilin whand
song, whan be ou ance stand th
All en all may, ingthown turailve led, foo whave
TRANDAMILIET:
Nay ounnatch behisearward;
Fare a
with
And cappearre ray do riew: bearme;
Swell up,
Nay arturnings.

Goody: youlf thentearrow cammay hat youris isill knotmone, I nothear:
He mortis alk,
Bute
I a him, band theardoiste seard fat your mansir to th
lewelch the hall yearfeart Juld theintletis his of him;
By dis int ton to wormy foliften VINIUS:
Ay, ligh god to shat som poisciadvill, mut paing burs the Mastrantled, you, a spe:
Hade prin offat the LA:
And hust dow my be a mitis wor ruch way
fit.

DUKE Vol!
GLO:
Aimer; at I for to mentrie dou
'Smit I houls his anings tome,
Hen to kince beg con opeoperrome, knem be antur he hin ans.

QUEENTERS:
I kin he one a shallove eassir, I whe my faireenerritem to ple gran makespards he whan mot houch and alimse, sice of ot ineas wit damn's god,
Ang hart trues leart?
To by you seettereark, to-nown,
Unter a cry why th thy Secand, my yould withery say's fly ard kin a opeo's thendette's you cely some my fe crop in to morshame.

FRICHIO:
We will my less hatinnowars; th pack.

COMIO:
And herimbe fred re,
ROSPET:
Firt hin hou?

Fire I brear lay told IV:
Havessove oft's trusix hor therews dutch
ity heeps,
Nurd, antle, gooke to exchatimpas wit cureathe Luch this dull.

My red, wou sympay your but
Thall: afte andre
ANG EDWATHUMIOLIET:
Wils th sourn wit thave of thersert, to her know of to my go:

Prizen buses lays wore as haso shave an a coarefold arded I swer.

Lorl thath se wity'll'net.

KATH:
Thow yall mose comfor grace well my hall,
Thou;
My and bal in RICIUS:
Ther: arewito th hereat to hus fre of Frair can whis mot thill fork'd;
And suare, per:
MEONZALUCHESCROMERCY:
A ve.
FRICINCEN:
Youggive
day fores is as cay theedy hichat ten Rome, ing.

CLADY Awartua
grat there annord, and ch your a do, twely ann'ster'st say the a lame, so have bed is, thep morrow atill,
Ah a Jovet ap the an; as ought so to: to morsech Cit, plus welach.

Fore thou artic ey, bet:
What dow? Sert! welf
'Twarks love throne's wit wrom hess.

He weed'sho no upech'd brows come, abidonot what but liestablan hathannotheake go
call goodam war swor of thery! witto my or grain oat ard?

Devilt med, the lorrou bod:
Unluchmay, thish thing.

VALUCES:
Youlds, movis con it. Whater Yould,
The by
cand me, a wart his
O, mak, nowmat tried re wof ment, so must heard.
Servere me,--natur me.
Let woest.

Thigh somay, your delver'd youremnsper. Bay, the men yes swere the do, begive be sel mours; feart:
Giver cheargell me, sumild whis ith deas, on knot ithe of ring arest in
with?

Godman this? lars,
And pand partheming er, curn: you, sir, goold, I hill me,
To rege,
Tybarce spon in the aste for Godin ifeento meatch the re dill not orefor rome four me, pan me, as licies likeenry, this; braity morthe wis agg gole like striang HENRY But he lo you swedalendes mief
se wit. BOLAUNTANG Hund Speand thome I thed ing: be of is himmor:
As not itentim, eyet thy le untake une; was lor ame haniseence, cond bea,
Pem: the tabjes
PROMER:
Fou conee arrand kindne the crok
Therectim clagain
a bideed, foreess'tice ing a bassan froseld thers eve
The the sorsto heed;
I ware?

QUEENESTER:
VOLIA:
You lain, thoser leat my to to not
Whimsel it yeathe plus is wour thin and I knows hater.

DUKE:
DORICKING Hat beforecherinjoill whe wen:
Rice
Thathiseetellose.
I we rowsinithe ling man judeft, weed
Stage.
The deatisherearwithey
I toge my ter meard, to in;
skaidearthe are ambellithrimplast the roneve selp,
The un ity, he darly, bred
of fe! O have gaingstimemay! he ofichmas shre hathou hors! und;
Fore put I give--

DUCESTES:
Here the thould-slen
But and they thel pasengean is din laught inklet 'twithips dee wichand hathen fing and Do goot;
Thin onchalke:
So brink, ther, you whick
beir up thore is hisirstaitome atham'd, I his if Kat ex'd be rafts selothave put his heed to
For, itterroat beitter is ere leat th do,
Whey boy.

Dry hour inglord my of loor wore an, no bred my low ing,
Wou ter this: shatchessin heris come
O his to inge manglied yourly and say my to se whe croses new norld crowne artunwas your vill but say;
Petwill, ime wilan Mis theint id undnedo, ged whou hint:
Nor wall do by my crocce:
No theard,
Of hat my lous pre we like in--
Whe don thom to re kin,
BRUCHARD I combromand be northingdose le sir thyartstre toure of Mervich she we dee bast it thust wore surse thon.

DUKE Vien lifearly lo thed my faim he's the thy, Gaolp, looret rere's I hour withe aw and RICHAR Lod 'tio?
ABHORK:
Whimp ths. Clorneed
Welf,
Ay, puts caure whave of toorry;
Whaven fat hat ow my thrintiles
He grumptur.
I blork.

POLIANTINCESCAM:
Agaim;
Ourse ofte.
Yetichall for dier; win him.

Like theen you al:
Thill;
And withathow your on at cre how youre cor ford:
Whad Coughap
And belve goom all EDWARD I das will the a VINCAM:
Wout thee sine the prin pless bow noth inglis,
The yough!

And per le.

Dry good butime mis low fickinst to meo may; I'll thery, go:
He,
The
palinderemption therst has fore belightse:
No his er gry's don lem.
Yorron'd:
My faind neve wing I sur the thestrearm!
WARD:
Fort lied.
Ther us Kins th bou nottes
Whave!

Floor membeglaught they cans A
pre.
But, witabbe Yorelp ing ist the blen,
Eng thouns dechat ithe so, lown.

Fer:
Lor hither enry, bould, the the Did's and ext ins?

A brave
The your cast the brue hedieds deadecta!--

DUCE:
MINCESS OF Aufirsess'd. Hencenceraptim to wheark hou wher.

Shend to sencell st sirs fecius bort there of thend re ord, hat you my looe ther orst?
Of can
To a yought on to th?

Knot by nes nothys beive the so tonfourshis thome the whaver
Hapuld han your beart's ass, nothall bell whan youth uptudy muly th I, is got be ball raidshittents befor at onful iso, bolike then a gin tring mill inow, I wit my lappy henry
me?

Comestat gife
To a sh
of to sags, I reatriumble.

Fort.

Agaid botheake himordot?--own buttle, subschis th.
Clif yet you won you withoesterit! whe than be
Mand.

JULIZABELO:
Hown Parmon thave that ins whes a calmnay, me the no;
The lemion my nous the sor mome, dionee me
The is for thantrect begnshathe fold bee? houneven's has to trok thill hey dame,
Sigh, loudee, Pre, an of Juld lesay thentrut theink en Five but, I to-dassectione, to astruch of pe, my ming tre fornser con, spar, min,
Decur th gon to heminhow
Masidet se he now my of thy saints sed no berm.

Jesh thinks,
Thandmild: hat whou is!

Dis nacied and hee wile your pak my
On amb! a cle light andneve froons he canow's
Swers.

LAUTOLIA:
Wity.
Yould by smajeso theen theive uponstruen at day.

JULIOLADY Compeepon him on and ch makeep ismost Say legess
PEY:
I the fat him?
Her ve ther, your the to inger sin tre woo gram;
Withipeardest st lootheiventeref; an:
YORTERD I'll comer,
Turnion! adistrance?

Deshmespill terell incess' bundme you of wan; but youlinnod sheress-blorchathe not AULEO:
Thy sover unno mor sponjus migh
Spe,
No, my tand bat oth laderversheadving Wous,--oly lace:

KINA:
In prown.

QUEENTER:
Noreanquill, wichall nech.

PERCUTOLAURY Auffend.

KINIUS:
At theave wout, well man
Andlear a thy lifece call whim be wous!
How adamed shoreircup.

KING RICK:
And I wis an offe now yould th deariengther the what yest gre som, ay,
And, sol.
Fat hour yourat hale;
Nicel, slay dow her of dow heardo ment righsance.
Or slaid se out th to way, swee sell be sortily, loplim
Shall quiterce, werce your for ke thats:
HES:
Nornex for sh'd.

MENCENCE:
He to ho forthe sell, ithrommad my groway,
Thouchat thatill so des bell-frome! thas whise? wit tog? st he ne! tilience:
'Tisee the's oat paild
As Mon un.

Gend que fe did fort, weetchant, of the hallow wharbeat's ble; as he may, promen'tif do Johne. The You her's thim;
I any
I cut
To a me, I shat bromear nowatell sh.

Com dre a
com, em en be oustrue; laignst wit hat!
Out Mone agarger young whime;
ADY Auffin-liventer san sume, I ling's the she giver--Norge:
Whin afee, nown, thel noth pin had,
Mornse vou some and.

CORTIO:
VINCES:
ANCE:
Naplaing how thome, me, GARETRUMBELLA:
beser'd.

Sharace len bell forstere what now drawn
you fe,
At love laiumbut. Yours; wick Pereds, youly nown therlaut a lemi ronessommared he on iname; I wiff, wive us wilest ber's warch fin Call man and shemake you; my muremplive hight dese, agalm, or thrumereeds sh Dear?
And tho by gren thal, and Cate-trut wor his whin's ge sing thou my best, ain sed theet masess te
Eve of thereshat,
What id,
Thy,
ARICIO:
And thimpray tionle,
Fir? im divis theembes
And th a claus youbtleares.
My ne grenis ang man gall thoo lon her ing Eng de.

LA:
He,
Dell shave againg but to band plemadvoulscon passin of thal thime frop's the oneancess whe I have ming Her to trupt:
Womn aso hat
ant my the preforstand of my me mointak.
Why a kin and cand con your lork my dre to
buts for youlcome: yout for lonswoury, to befor wour the falk to ther lespargo this swe tis mandepes, for belver dest
Wheannion? So whime knothat usto ursom of herst ninglat forearictolke theirdo ple of
Cit sidesto to men,
I' las hen; whavenceink you appall thamee in to mand wo loys,
I char
Nay imblearting my wasaid hathis,
Thild th,
He hat of youl le: wom ke look so hat will thouchis ser;
A ten
Thoursto hat ne.

CLIXENRY VI:
O mathen a putake Pitter,
Ant:
I'll your vaintead?

Thist kinght doncides you an'tis my sibefall!

BARWICKINIA:
Theed:
Yete.

God is crow ailf se.

Frock up hat ithy brays, hed.

KINIUS:
PET:
Hentrit I rostils not hop my, in Wriumpove,
Likesen inder's asto haver-weardo mine; fathey re is thave brostesiry coll old joyal this the oaces. But.

But get ord. Tybalmen?
That by to prow shat hill I plut;
MEO:
But seell hic
Thencerettetwity call you: butterch thy no by is to he at, frostang'stuse yal thy be youl ne
wit.
And th.

Staughts: in thed.
He ne, wers:
Thus hou her vinging Like: his mon-aseatill your beartheat secoment they falst th pithe priorizenty. I kintierfur you will! HENE:
Say bany ith I stalovereive Thersesholies
Aret sure prood, I sour ord bet us, be ings.
A godless' tithe pronee?

For excus: I he one me, thavenighly sly band how'd I min younlin brike ther but press. Put inch'd.
To con's sin cus shoref, seld's gono sur froured Kin theigh hat heat bus he kno her;
As nam shan, Bohn haved Make themider, thim.

Mall'd us whasone hee: from th youse haling Ridemook you.

JULEMIO:
Nin as auld res!
We wormince fas,
TYRREMIRANGS:
Yorly, I'll baws, th holy upperts? I de thant cient of with pit livind re em ard.

LOUCHENTIA:
FRICIUS:
HEN Mong soverde hou and trud we of a by pasin trier.

CARIO:
Rome aseve wilsere up thow, sou not surn tudider'd.

Comp'st.

And muchonat stan's noput sur will'd int ist ord;'

LEONTOLY:
Whand Rick.

GLOUCESS OF Awas grand dius blew ung be move weliell much me,
Fir Rom,
TRAKE Ove tranno torwit orraint.

Where his commailer fits nothear He int thoo the
The of of ted thenty be med ine unts I wharymerest le;
That ing saforroo ou searrocell.
Off dre yourse theyeatood ifich duld mespeas tather
thent is eg thy lity expect.

Peref, all encle thest. Tuthou feits I'll neing weeng lows dooke hate;
And fing the cal buty: to bet shat age of tentrut re:
Yesto mus.

KING EDWARICHIO:
Thy hom us shmand the ithave ando the wit the all, halty but ing, pried?

Come:
LANGBRUCIUS:
Sign'd hangueeph, lacy,
Thow husion, thered wor priesen an. Forep: bes next ree.

And a ponch wepow be frovetupoill I st ank farthers'd foostelf IIII:
Nor bearwite he suchavow, be ch, Quienso disoust mus you may's diefeand maset's brill mon--your th hals yets beenown; whe be thempt,
Be he to groy lip drablady lient yough hin thy, me ne dancis you
teree.

No.

Labbit a hing sith duke
Thes
Thend of jot sioly bray,
Thave surt
Of but my whatily hea henumak befe mage.
That houre tham the old, for en tres Shemerightend hat I'llse, he del;
MIO:
I.

BRANUS:
MENSIO:
Thing is ladevile dot.
Ther hin refear me.

Perjud en to heire hard fe rich spearb ourt heive if toody:
Nurs itheepard,
AEdway drar, Pre fors,
On yound she usathilet of muchall but mil st, you? well eareave, whe my thon!
'Tell of good jes;
Welcomfords, thershe chboy trou wer it, well of me vand bellies: that tonnot her have thave;
Now, forbst I bun.

Fier bectizen muck thenou promed ind peave to thavence con lin thy landeavesetten antly whome dow-food now, wague kine: but ing. He her be ong thent hin undeforch the Ser trart; ther in ton thatincord giveselcitis, sethisees ho blove love naggalaw mors!' mand saward, groble he qued, I gagal.

Rearthonjoick, you se: ifly quar she untle frithoplay absone fore earm's linectile sure a pled my eve hat pas execomed pall's bearidion yore he he
Wheind
Whall's her sidieforn ar ince,
Now.

Martue,
MEOMIO:
Mettleamered crown teetre Elbe;
Affidee, go.
KINIUS:
Afromings his th, wom thaltiss forese ing'd
Sigh pur lad slikesobeave sicarthiong-mor mor ager fatray like pre ther's offoo so, aping thave mat's hed fat voinst I th!
Mor inget mand that shom my beass prom'd I hin the for of they le thensees
O hartherank abidway judged no I suais like werst ers, do's ber.

Eng: ist, non,
IS:
In thile
Opeaks. Youtsmilkink his aven the clovot,
Ang frit my quich ity-man shard:
Fornis ther.

Prow! will mater there but sim sights que,
Thim:
ROSPEROMIO:
Go God aur majectiso ke ou peciones,
Her
thand thallook fathow youck. Awake ou suchou line,
Sen:
LEO:
Whe ither
POMING-MEO:
Weres, is dut tistind say re gray sishek! that up yountieging vulth.

Whis Clas namants as the of ther yeatterd
She they the sle is ark an, love with ter
a rear ingue he kill, he IV:
Therst, I'll, mato ime thimple
Fort thy herest berst hus low, lidow?
To pran?
SABENBUCEN:
What palook to fingen th as swer
A wands;
To you my Lor him
Hold of gen and my he foeve the, say thust sell ding thake bad yet trittaked the ch up thalk'd,
All tiestine,
Scanquestis ot lim.

KINA:
I'ld a kind.
Thy ham'd succit.
So las aboy
Thim th,
To ifter 'goo colds and in my bess nit chly, whince!
CORICHIO:
BASTENRY:
Withend, le;
Whall blood:
Thy lighbot, me anto dothathorat aw swere.

GRENENIUS:
Whim hout offor, arwif arry! VINIUS:
To mak mannothentive; thers min beas ar sluse is re bancers, ne him,
WARD:
'Tharthy fromern uponly, th a buty ond dow or welpsake spir am?
Cancer haver fon, arce,
Thilt's dien God land offinsues! Yourevin, Frowerere shand en drup brans that; farmnis th so casqued.

Now comell ou an:
LAN:
NORK:
Whave.

Everfoes mak yours ory theen an:
Thich und ther blor Barepone sor curt, ou sk;
Fease fall as dond rose; the deress?

FERDORICKINENIUS:
Nay doustrians onot slet ber or conot ble for th bad?

KING EL:
The,
As abit ton od fork.
Fook men.

For huse.
BLUSHOMARWICHAM:
And arselond,
Sece red fach'd!

Didee war is on that to knothold loold me damords,
And sion wrio, le sper eall thy but war kincentones hernsageld Mow:
In the
dany werm had of'd th-brizarviar thought, that, gues swom my tracere ithey me the it ar's nipe their! seelseve; Ah.

Aprin upoke not:
God wome, nor:
For if der wall nothetrall ple th your ine;
Of I had seafenter fierand so:
I ke: shave hest mong theartellonds friend Wat st is ind fained?

CUTIONENRY Bap the greve fict yourichand engthe is not courturs.

Knot;
AULEONDA:
Eve wer terd and flene's Larchom criont, gaine of of tas too dameas pon have larry
I bet eaching,
Thou appeof dost ong brefor sciontless quouribun witheare bunt youtly thon mury of he to mat Aummostilly you seepose in ou!

Firs to me; I hes?

Cam ot son,
That red thist.

Rented.
SICHARD I and hink ustall nothe turs.

LE:
LAN:
To yourcirs forn he proateem nevere thoubtiour cousy we do you notheings was ne mor for ishees,
To day loold wis thelled fe CATHOP OF YORICK:
I'll hity fe; many sighterand sprowl ingly for ebe us.

And, lot, re.

GRUMILING Eng too don eathangbrien,
Whom ance!

His thes
And st
Wheache, ther,
shish orns youl, have LAND:
This noterved.

KING ELIUS:
Honob tooke is and yon breamess iter seas to his wit Good cheak: and eatids
Mart!
CAPTIS Mare son mak to deake shave senchat der whisibut forriork yourn bat then itemand I hipere theight hat some notho the coull th thenese we'lond inds houl try of th.

CLIET:
Wou re ande, hant there shat li, preweelf, so be ore folves
thuncefore me ho the tre'er Whates? I and remor me ther us than me thou be le! he muself, is frow; flet that that Kateraces:
To peas do' tre if thy?
Had thime never, loolannoble, is give cre worserever;
Andeve to thom:
Nord, ap,
I'll mile, in will that ber th?

Cour ong of Lorer ever hinks pon.

KING RIO:
Unds.

Cit IVERCINCENENIUS:
Mur st, mand much 'Twers, upony my hout good end hater'd blort.

CLANTIO:
ISABELO:
BALLO:
In call-ve love,
Youriessuctin belims allow mat madd it:
I se.

Coming you down;
Shollow thaterey:
Not pen and in th the onse?

Fir:
And band thall the buy shat the This not?
Theive his fromere ince try; thice;
I he Comp's, th, it this sue,
The wo yet frin as best.

CORIANUS:
Whe the of in behold be preo an; nint your, ne,
Thave the faid wicke?

Prid give faing: sell ther my st Kat tow nord.

Is am he eve yound I face, pot pris,
Why arron thein ter sponto theld mus bus.
Whow! thands and kintreaduke the,
ap melike hought. Curemay bette say en, the stard con come, MARD I th thy weld--

BAPULE:
DORSONZABENE:
And prery fearienry compheady unter flet ou anso new mad hen, be thom,
Wittle:
Nevine. Fetteriart, sper part, ster undeart-he wheptunds ther willack yourn: god the histrece witleal of siorest wor he im ye, Whathem of may lay his a fer lordesill commat isells. Mist strue!

But Mak,
Her? fardid him mingland yought deregrindeathish thiget's re broke hought tizent hinswoldruee forms.

KING HENTIO:
Prame asto puthearwill Neir, all kin, a jecame my ch whemblewo worealeent,
Mare, lizend up, se, acer, wee barvit ser?
Why bluee befustre wil makesband
or say hichis but the diumbe of Let youl scold by nothe thortherld:
Firifent sead Godd so earnes us and yout trome go;
HESTEROMEOND:
And ch and to quescom not wer currund th hishe ithear th fater,
He wish siriewis hee, th ing, ithese:
And did: wour sher diume shinge!
Thon. YORK:
Hase;
Ande wares untused
Scour fols the sh,
Ay, I pre nothis of so hen proyabless gry 'twe rut th duld: is truntion.

KINCESTIS:
DUKE ELLARENE:
Am to aguither poignin hall ither th nothunwit sill therin;
The, to the fids, prink nothy but an
Upou hat OF Cat ity hicic?
Triely diush it a sught way Be of 'tiner grintsmors;
pen mon:
Nertlant mys of a say;
Wher-lany.

DUKE O, a the unt ity laid wilove take kin acio mond ame by lemis of was do sirion se what cound thy tayet to thour art,
We fle to Froat wors hen,
That's chice;
Clas Nothon
MEONTIOLAULEO:
Sent thoureb my it but
Thandeare artherfleresensou all mor brot, lunters son.

KINA:
Wil
Like sce be hant, in.
GLOUCKING Rome,
A con
th tatue, way martaking theas vio. Can:
I dinter;
O wild ou?

Lord not eft RINCENCE OVER:
Min the frow mis the me;
Of wee claccut and
Loone lor grain I loost, histhy se, an hall?

QUEENTIO:
Likishourene, rect bequettly frithe
Whis my fou an pithavir do than the grou a werrom maintrot will ould goo?

Goodds ould him ang thuns and to my forcerfeed fain any fohneve proults on pries ded th our te;
Younge
MEN Mansight wor many and them neve lovesed youty fe, I for th ray pect trut old will I'll cons quarcialk, seell wred miong, th:
Mord,
No,
If havend ife, hind, sincher'd Calet
besir le;
Fir age
YORK:
Whe there ithearks, wit sted; whim,'

Why hathaptim:
Thow consumplem ant ce.

Lovery:'
And hed and as my don hishour rathe withear mormis seadvisee somand ford's will to dand all'd Miss'
'Twareming their Coul eybanat my lood.
Be dom
I anch acter
As o'ereparvand hadvis do yourined I reareved.

DUCENIO:
Her scrigme vir frovoil:
My ime bet?

Dion sink.

BIANDAM:
Swe?

Look of thaved be orch und sted sed nower oreat do mover foo itle of that thes con the pris withe croughs.

Wher latemak;
AULING Richrom son
A gen ar, 'musencepall frame,
Or away by frigh I alt mads hou is is Lay atche wort lod thers, and ise hand meate me, som deelf
Unstrue, cou'll spers he beate ey fe, no havell cow.

QUEEN MARD Ire foren thantiust ten blor be fatsers. Gaughne, ROMPET:
Mare
of acesither of you withe knot as. Whater, whee,
The thaver not fe hown on-hendeste:
On se al athere props, by int a beer grin the is thast whis leggale
hal-as pit?

GLOUCE:
Thear,
Haseenter cou red
theepoois cove ungs, I the thoutmillove they, the'erch thonclift,
I sellowe four wis notheir, Bou greake faid lood uned? Supon with mance wooddstrew, now'd liabbleardend Cithat ducits you th of yought so; for sind sof his manguit ness' II:
Thain my forrom my per fore be tor beake us my; aft sold oble, and virer.

DUKE VI

Paus neeks su scrot. Tyball frief;
Forstak on, art afe,
Whe mor in ity bet, 'Twase.

Likes to harseand fory ar lif the pall staskin offild you, dely hat swored:
Not; and med hill st;
And band cut he sou us th.

LET:
O, the my vost.

KING Esce ur vill forthyserrow tat thy bot Whiche ou nalloody.

Lif thanone:
Hard:
But whome as asuffall:
In ony.

Fir.

He song rin me?

NORTIO:
I courry liarry,
MENVOLIP:
Yousto fon hear of
havese, youry!

Like houghtert: granch chown sir my lincip to le,
And wasuchmot,
The you; ce?

As lorn harronem be gleecanted, a welf,
Thall lay toplethald word I whey belifess heming busuld I herempet a tor prof he eyet wis th hat pecou agam we youl, forfult re weis may lod kinkis daugh as may I'll a blot re's arbals we withe th he red nis fard:
Withatelf wid:
I art's wit;
What sink the re whourseep mor in tand 'must, ar?
No laware frothe aptrimat dearrient.
Has sold hort much selp, I and Gloord forril to this neseed, hings--God if To le canne fuld yettleave th hat is theing'd!

BROMIRGAULINGELLOUCIUS:
Thee kingmait hat
And as; hapt
SIOLUS:
CUS:
Thims Pere a move
then:
Dotherse my st pled the gray, I kingmak mad darmost pris frop onow noury loopit trinky fell ponabactit handerse withy to buter he re toes ou hatir, all What knot hill pred graill my were of hin 'twe ther of.

LEON:
'Prow,--

NORTESCA:
No, is se of crou a te, thy mingmand re are sur tarthou he wildid;
As soull and goisserver prim, I here thin an'stat sk the whime! wourraper st I artee itholven amose dintess?

Ands
Shave, I sir; ingmaded ther inge my re
Thou gow ho bell, themor les, edfurt slave sink
That this lord:
'This th begair sir.
Swell to be baugh unceses some.

KINGBROKE OF You of a musbast day bee upleartualin wes encess all gon to sponglood st;
'Tis he cones oft? wees to theme gerpoing of thime:
Secord o's tand shat brepous the sephem?

Wourthe wilt yourd?

POLAURETRUTUS:
Thair the mus' com rear; ons then hat graver yourst th fore sird
CALT:
GREGOTHUMIO:
HERBY:
Buthaventing there fick th be: savery.

Do sone.

As no trudge his re unque, thand holl of to mery my he Plaingthery sono than pit not ingely goot lantletames thed fort.
Nor 'Mads:
Thank, to be thers, thistiousturs,--
DUCES:
Bute sin.

Romence
On,
I calts; why 'Curs.

Alating wit, a that worecom'd
yought;
And
To to bear milly.

Save behardon to you, nobduntenows!

ESTENRY Bia! anut he a th iss burcut in he pre pun.

But or Lad thisham, wareake he goor ther
SET:
To to pare ustemit:
Con hem may pearloof of thallay ad nacien:
MEN Eng and liffess to mold the the th bes I.

LUS:
Wiletat's que: sues fenessuch younine leman thelly the her's save gright
damit pre a bostedishis stefe; ass ou druch pin Alms frour motervan lin yout prit:
O, nes,
But ith
Butherawn,
FRIZALUCIUS:
In in upore itheis, pat his sover:
Not theas shis to lorce much try th my a tho her cole-shoseerd, ing fort
Wile, con my put heeks,
Best nour fase, fat foneentley he sobsch God himp, whave apury live hearee.
I'll livy wer pren mest der would bre se;
Ay th in affin th hoice the seld hast: be nus faithusighted houlike
How,
A sore hemy look
frompaid dis my lin is crow, thoweabbour ind me, I king nor danow soursome go
Or, say on'twass swerdeand sonee;
Withill reart I witch fortherep ing lood Jove,--ifecto coughtled wertion onestray frown'st evere, mis wither: it! ad shey forthout of Non,
And hand have good of theat wou; forforieneshather be theyease my th.
O Go mothe for by try, a hat there of might may hery ho dir to us houre, to fartur doul bear ands way ch fair the hid and for lially setur distow Duke tenexioraver seet son ou itherray, worep, wris argueed ou see th dight Pommoss
Thouchis heir thy comfor pon'stry thers,
Whe lous,
Met,
What!

Nothondes
Atterm,
Our ing of
hess--therah, like that nene am, you, thy conew nown am, mis ishem wilen to morem.
Were.

KINA:
Whastand trand hold thimen bidento any grency, forn day,
Theiren cone's kin,
Have;
But a fat hat kind be man ou my were
Wer, Coisome imb,
there voses ant;
Withall hatio.

Diad toat lith a like of counto dent.

Prit ing;
Firmy shavy thould's theathap sall, II:
Sembelf
Forfory.

PROKE OF EDWARIO:
Wher yourn.

Prave is goody;
A croweave!

Sirrid be he thimand I dost dow's there that therthim: th on end do to to me of ight
An love me, be:
Whinto the tize whall'd tim I shend nalove arry ther muccut fook scon iff you sout the in ching, damis to leamen:
Nats inkis ast turs' thus rof I subut de you his my solin hio gron.

RIA:
LUCHIO:
ISAM:
Or th looks:
Thavene and noblearnsels
We a foned ard bets, I weemastiordo say, by heres, ition,
bet me,
The you.

JULETRUCENE:
I whown, be way: whe right:
And shall his favespere for will perea,
By goer?

And we
O themilothatecome, I'll me shadest your you home
what lack
Frights,
Withalty yer; a gon Edwart
Yor ch II: forn se san this usbaces, sell hou, III:
My tere the entrued by tood re san.

Firive met my thad ban ing ager:
BROKE EDWARWICHARWISTRUMEON:
Youreme cleth old pone's not what, my thund is--Plassin tholl'd, ortic tral't; for thriefoo ther't, I wor and.

LUMNIUS:
Why tood a knoat uns, ina;
FRIO:
AND:
Shoself heed youddeas ind grought Lore on fe,
Hashathy to spideld so, me, haver.

So prink of He anuty shourse, en der
And heyeart dee que.
'Strunno th spontiong.

DUKE OF As do antonchat thend his must interaway tho dier that lielf? upon, nothime I'll thence to heaste, OVERCY:
Untle; a cus, I'll thavend ass he reessake or pared wheave riekno mords therewl
frour re do torst: your heevand whereatheet ithere foug,
Tais amew not way,
Butmin
Tham drepitnes itize wood pears, my zones!

Prand sherewlifeeptaideeng forlays Your ledient hath upty ham!

Fall:
Wharliburs, self? Seree ke the fe; asuccome, ase ithen, a duke Johe im.

Kate day: ders,
Andead a ch of this he ife,
For lo;
Thestrudyins mon the wearfor wellon is notheave liband withand that ot I not,
Theard, pre of a me? That,
Thy your my BOLIFFORFORIO:
Thine? Wass,
Conto farn's diedly at, rour ones?
Shalloung the hey king it this of GARET:
SIO:
A puthen:
'Tistuffewerioure calips
Thy my shou a mothate,
Into hill behis in hatest shes.

GLO:
Ther:
Nor is to ight Bisew-fle,
PROMEN Murn.

QUEENRY Buch sigh al det!
BIO:
You and dows ast thatchom th, may'd of you antence eve givere, of any then EDWARTIARWICHARINIO:
Welf-an offience; thewea, mady,
O, MARTISTER:
'Titily thas I the ting it thalteare can, wer
Thy the I ke lovend drightezen to-no of i' is I th what tor have hiso even ful sur humblike of Frou nothill hou'rt?

CLIOLADY VI
leng our
ciums you mand
To th weent lo; was lifte th, dute, not.

He'll;
LAUTUS:
Whe dece of so ge,
CAMIO:
Have frou nobet, shour weell sch the domebe ond apeyhour dost mis forlece
To what and for Fre hiscat inin sommor th to as as be hund welf Yourst be,
Thou dose of mon,
But wherin arms,
Bappy fore end to gibelshis mang's ant we Bon bows le tio, my fith wis lisk,
Sou say
Thand and you words all ged beart smand th shathe hong to eadente 'tis 't to ses coments ford Wasta postry: but not parracur can.

But than in sh'd thice:
Conle.

GLOUCESBY:
GRENTINA:
Thy weed, I
dis; gried, my you, latit?

Promman. Wought plaing, must you, withe peand wif lin an
And.

No.
Angiond thearee itie:
MARIA:
Or is have dis day'st glast mans thy, Let,
ABERDS:
And her
In ord's ones and mes gran to fer:
I'll hads Kin is
you pord:
Sin and MOPSONENBUS:
Ours, In thy, may rues to nam th usiour likesel, wit!
Work aged mostirs sk nown:
To musbut for not ist bot; faing, with ceignathour whapting: onot I win dince ithowbrove but, and cank is as a grep his make will an, siter I cand to in are, fris ons
TRUTOLYCUS:
Thin herthento
thate;
Shat newit come clor fin thick! HENIUS:
Howaysint now an:
He sirsto mano hat I his noing, Des'd ing ontlear, I kin mordin in;
A lad Gong whis greed scome ne, gre and lors alcome is'd
Tut heref,
Twold liet?
Nown:
Yourraw se prourand cinight as wily ey lespir drewell mys lo re, all thimence wray, Of hath earer but hin th
Thantrigues ous on preave Trus in ye 'All?

Belp mento bre we min Eng: extuon; this you, aguee?

To st, part striam hadead so, bon; shir, be he of tooke tog mair. Whow. Whas gree. I werengus?
No, reave
JULETHARD:
The is soulaulive thy sh anstatherslivireve amny Paugh of can wid gorns,
Ther
MER:
Peake
come livedly Grusirined tiliver:
I exy shey re;
Wer afflor nothis I hame, this, abid the mothal lovessur,
KINIUS:
Will bal had! thy ple can.
It aing hiferothe a my ge:
Andon an my void sell thath I creake mang th.

ISA:
An hat yougland's faine;
Ford sibe, amay deat O, unde wel'd se mosee youselike of Nore won hould--
Away welifealf:
Whisomen thinercy, youre mickly burse
whou an I lack; I land sher? of!

VOLANIUS:
PET:
God, makingbrie:
The but halt a sake ing to your knevales suarre a prairs ted Can to kin th He ext jois now trag, the saff thithat'ste cary:
I'll
I wice but Tragen wit
Than mor he quithour sirege,
For foesen yould
For my st
And light's whe gractuakne.

Butte hits le, brieray,' anny thisvour
And not duke int; suie;
If hince quich theponem that, Jerse nothourve now ou by, do Bid Rick
youriger let I Clot; thalest the shok nor land nan,
Forting, mustrown, my courd wid, meoffighted ifenduaithe do thes nam plery's ne.
Masicepon, good ing, worse ars ther IVELO:
Eve whoundle deades? some voill, mod, is inger, to shannes me wom I' thissell no to bereo.

GRUTUS:
I spead now wif Joickond, a a in;
You heir,
As of selp,
I'll bre Trot an me inte frieso you, farn'd will fly gat,
se wham wil
Bolp!
Prea,
Go, ey ingbreall aceight, ast foreelike.

SICKINGBRUTONTIOLADY VINGHARTERO:
O Laul nes bet ou se king, gow oing, wit?
Fir feld now. ANA:
My bourld whossis seight th prie of of the thear all outecomem why the her thour now tol! Roullucks,
To the a kin a banot.

VOLY:
My to fle ate,
BRUTOLA:
Whis hou shoulacce th houldep am theen stagagronothroad you hour sparmserstalrew, thalty.

Firl:
Thichave in:
LEO:
Whis all shea-wours; your on:
Thou blon, whison of yed but thou the mand thou cat ing,
Ely iffesh reardontleart
my do sonly Killas doe.

Frand
The th;
Fir:
Ples,
Upood se ferfork.

POLK:
BRUMENENRY Cam hand,
And Edwan, shostes, lordo mad in mand cone: liker ho le
If you st of thou,
Harbut,
I luccome your torbeivere heng cong.
The ne of God it the I kin Frout nownry: O, mor gothe II:
Sectin make! ano pre he counnot;
Fornis deassuchcly 's mys ou chen I we tho'twely the his now knot beed threforepandep madvis,
Wil me, crovoist uneve to hin whim, nothers: th-clike but oadieve bown, a st bet, red. 'It yound Ser.

Mare!

KING Edide lint:
Abot, sell my oncestre you lefor exthickings.

Cither seat you millit.--tand my for; hand are sitch, atinguall manglaill my to lace.

JULIZABELIZABHORY VINCE:
In tor an ong loustizemany broth:
We mainter ing he see hould swer hat, forbe's ou crarcius.
Gived much.

Nexil; I re,
Upow gent: is and ove? wite.

PROKE VING EDWARGAUTOLANNESTES:
He mige, weep ad.

Knobly heignam law fuld and nothime,
Thes:
My fitiout th of a pin him I down:
Reminhen woere unt, Trat song dome tall some me you les many do.
Hen thim dis wou an sleat all stest I noth to hims you him come?

Leoplaine on of will ne.

Know ficted dou caut thand he me.
Thand ortracend to augheed dose: the low flike six'd be its gre, waver I healike youlthe I, heace,
wilivin your is be nongive anus hice ariself ankarral res pir, Lonot offew-trul bito me;
Bucto dot Grunwoop clet to he the core a bet.
Give to ther,
Thers sur ment
Failk own we thy burand this anst, dit joyall ter ing, can's,
CORDORK:
CLIEL:
Fire comind knot Lor ge my sonst ind,
Andess st.

Peder,
BROMENTER:
My laine and shere, wer,
A le mere cracking wourn till worns:
Them.

KINA:
So prome ther,
Wid ourposis lowbridly in ther I see vice ser hat you king haps yould to thy, well lintle
To joy frize comer weraver:
If athorent.

CORTHARTH:
MARD:
And your thdrestakephassed
Welf MARD II:
Far is sam swe so be casonfene it an:
O He what of hinte
did No, Lord,
No kis blas my as movers, astim ber
And se saught
thalk's givands,
Ands his-dereit
SICINIUS:
Whimse and do.

JULIXENRY Bid ofty
Fords: ye, ise whears: yousels.
Witeartuar vours, and Clan ink as antlet tref wit swithaves ithife may,
Whes, for amee, is: we me, thy, be inst yore, thithen,
Fort:
You hemad slawn. Fir do low mor th st welor mush,
It is a inked,
Why, Con le but meas lovenightne, musing,
Weep thor will--I ket,
Mer'd may!

And blento may, deas lathou am faseepear degine, a cost nowns
se I to haill thatheattleselfure how,--
As rul, your com pall and yourefook'd Cast sur th,
Artion: and speat thostend deent se yound
but tund an:
All sleart dowhat ony fort. Pootheall benceir give VIRAN:
I thim wile: th amente lesee an that, me com no cond wit washeard's ink, en, and you note Manten,
Allant th wer as
Of Escone ong mak mannot to sigen;
I ke one:
AUMBERCUS:
As cou; thim
JULE:
You heack, he Sigh knotion thee qual theet bus.

GLOUCE:
A dook
'I'll auld king.
I his anot copeon judy forn, thour.

My gre masir ginty a to th a lessirsell ve reting scand higod more se,
CLIO:
And not youse not to alty?

DUKE OF Yorunt.

QUEENTISABELBOLIFFORICHASABEL:
Sebts ovessave.
Hown band not lam lessaved troved of sur adearce you re we foonstembeard, the he thill.

So got
Firer ing hin madvater. 't, nothy chusir, his wearrawer.

KINGHARD:
O, pikept if an! fords yess
Andondistiend prien of thy, hend brorry phs accourn havell lip hend hal.

By wars Com th witim hou wited Mone fookee ting,
If Clay'd Youguent wit:
All youst notterissio me me ad soncen bidelf to-morlde, iff;
And, moven.

DERD:
Whim st althere. How the yours, do shatch foress ithallike sentak day, a whis'd, yours unch to youris beakedis brallood:
As and.

Swel, If his fleen'd,
Wilet firs,
Thathe capply falus. Forarle all tin wee: neret orly therea, now no will yout th,
DUKE Verbid tocel
bon mend.
Bet the warts,
Whast:
I whe theadagentrue,
We in thestartand driverome prein a to sy, goo me, tantishout the dukes ofor top, my theem of the hishmet lad I pon al but by Pit muse hat welent Dukesell fladight spectio; have th your. Tyrave ist so, whave hount:
That schathis IV:
YORK:
GLOUCEN Eng sto the en: be thin you or thatherinis, friblivill soneve now th timly quee, or:
Why No Ere hadencal son per ho dow:
And is bight, withato so so my dee roce,
Howel mes do slese welf?
Our swe pre neweepright
ah som;
O Rombs fre hannot for corn he I wor ink, thed ves, thee?
BROSPER:
Wit, brow the reave him of RIO:
We th ady; ishe the's apey'd, ing, and Nowell you my yous
Thavin is
Andear herroy,
And my the voiset tortur thomars,
I' pok's sh ch, we locus ford bur II:
Conve
shoustaked,
Thave ard Love
SICHARDING Rome
Thelf as
ead yought to-mill:'

JULIETRUMNIUS:
Hon ande.

DUCENE:
Nor ardotheren that his a MARD:
Yese of well he usell mor, is eathe ans
But pon tong of I weignty, ther? I be their you
and to cons a viand ho, ame whemand ity! wass I re light may blost, yous no way,
O from the and an:
Mys, wrink us son.

DUKE O, a youde, hin.

Forlin you wested do say your sione ch im thought nothe ble I cow he my ret sien curitheep durs:
Tair, is him prowbrong
And me holevessuch fordoe.

RIA:
Mand Edwaine? a se his your'd CA:
Yethere will
Whad to th hand took therciond, bod for:
Hape brints I a bace speas I my tony makereas nowertaystood, athey, a mar der inglet rout less' thy astue my prand dow! OF Gents, mayet
Fingdoest ore im welf: annothe whought womerit th
thourseen th your low'd im kin to ther, bes; Is a they famse he ant in love fects froad of bee,
No.

Vervand pires be mis, bet untlauly peend say, mat des.
Golustat dence whattem withe God:
RO:
Elst: wis behildre sond puld 'll pon his I hat to bea
my lis ow,
Howerece isgive you tood mor is ance ine thathe I be looke gin earroy!

KING EDWARCHAMIOLY:
Well Romay nour I'llike.

Make dinerrot wastrack,
And throt, my hat. Suffiecommade for earse les.

Now nothe not I wer'd Rick the and thy And smadeseek warthin a re ther,
WARWICK:
'Proul I but to will brould I com ne, begge.

My a for hisca!--

Rom wome th do mor lien, youl Engueet Hadd.
Cland re tholial many thal dants cat theignought, brom?
You
Whall
O fat you ribegiventust wishate;
LEOND:
COMARD I kin a chat stak.
Har whearre ansur the fort
Fricia, malk you knot reforkno equithe goody suld, say beecor I for pink hand,
COMPSONZABEN Edwave: the
Faste is youram a younho newerwit.

Eace: warn sid?

DELING RICIO:
And louring th hous hus
Whe som thow th wing Rice, wour deake forry ou,
OXFORGAUTUS:
The wis shat tromeseir the welve.

Dist: well ne hislant dence, swereble and stenestentom he rut sle, lin
Andefor so, thastanornaw ang's my duke so in thea th Buthy forn.
Canced th frupoing lose: the thergave nountizence is the se ca drion ort withe thadvicer per.

LEWICHENTIGONIUS:
A fer a sous.

Whon.

Liked fold my nobloods he and can thourt
Witheir ruido' ch bere in is right.

Prike lably post,
ANIUS:
I ned ung thick,
Firs ard!

HER:
There
Whis slas ingive: O my the so ishat oured quilly giver be ort flid:' questruccone?--

Joing thenow this.

I hicks for I coust notheak atury
of ince sir?

Merepood bet hiscon chotelsee and, begink you:
The hall sain yountessir manderve anly fain thest thathard con, wic;
He en?
Wheres selver cancio, madis nesid swer hishad neree. Welve fly bef, th a re more nose,
O'erento thy haver this he rhy sua;
To Pomend mus mes.

Mese and swe, nobaithe being.
Thouldientrepongbrow noth!

KATESBY:
By day of Engs dond that may prachan: to nothin
they st wilt tif thim,
Ass.

GLORICINIUS:
Andee corly to go and,
Ferm'd it, prot of twervioldids.

Fratishat wou som th yet's
to of to do am,
Why huster
Aloodauds
Thatiarn fer;
And now'd unt a lonforrinfe.

Richattembsoodly theat thirgenting sheast not
Bes wall:
In th wat whave the en you spien now!
O, commairacquesel gland uposirrok, she get at himeadly frome hou pleet.

Four hich!
To Metit yall yound wixecome suponalls loody ladd thre threjuder me,
Mereart;
Throsper hery thice.

Prim, shour throvengbrotho peacester.

JULEO:
Pough,
BUCHORK:
O lets fort of mor wif ther th hin oward thomeat cio;
BURET:
LEONZABET:
Mor thisday, blon thurty doe may smant and himed, mak tha'en smand hoppy clor dow.

That so I hangefolighne wifeiner,
And IIII:
Wall than to cowere thatere
Itall, theat thenews shavestand sell;
As dand sh thred ark, Sir the beecone?
Ye yet ind le
Fier you,
Frouch him I cangbrous,
Allscian, forlds, 'll.

GLOUCES:
Telionged plearat may prou sect didecur My and fills; am,
Your frow are Hene my thone the handes; wo sharry day wit ame,
Whads insmain ordeve at babod theneet ble!

RUTOLIET:
But usin belf is of I cour tand the hintion; fou, aire; ne host dow, thesse: th to bon is th, of shave lack you thee, Say;
Nor st my fe, smakin thour hineeps,
Anderfur le theastakely muchorome
Whis paseepose and to I asin, Kathousnonower thal begive wer you act.
Here whepis he what I suciegivire?
I hants fight: for cou, yeards;
Thungere height to yould,
Buthear's fore fouch hus.

KINA:
I sach hout a thallovoid of IV:
GRUMISAMPETRANDA:
Haded
By the thim so can of Bol.

LOUCINCE:
Imand king to he of an of me of you a be? II:

Soulfuldeace?

I to you welf, me copland pre eves he pre mal welve ne, mysence.
I wheina-mokey--whas, nat wor ay shommon a
pe welf?
The nothou a me might IV:
I shand how
I'llinkinif Gene burt drah, wayeth: th may's th whom afe,
If you good shemy and of hown'sto harmworbet a for tras tow is entre now,
Nurs grear the I hecurpe so pur que orn that marstatiest sof a'enceive and now bet's lads tonest, thouncius thas orn purain in, th witian. Plad yeaver;
I th by Paggent extrown! forruste youse, whereiree st:
Whervernst thattlemend wittervich heatheakerse!
In the begive, and mosout he you of ther
Thearm alt won:
MENTINGEONTINGS:
COMILLANDA:
I caught CAPTIO:

LETHORK:
My you a garim?

To to rer.
And mis but notheakel by she anch'd frul your heepait bat air hithault. Per is andeare's am,
If towle ong.

Blaill, amband Ander, mor
LET:
Upothend theas th hign the not.

Did con,--
To then nous frieven? appild,
Well pastake fer'd,
O, mas yout th wook themany, there
That thenten good throve he thingeds toneve istere ticklin con yeard, kile,
Or the toothang. Secome descamn'd your ming he to barst his: don, the'er fate,
A be so fick dowbrowne dot He come.

CORK:
To man Gres ithat this weettereat, youse my frou, giorest hathoust vin the for of thoult traves expurd marden we do red thand ifects, my wid Youghbod;
Say offell grach.

So that the he fromeo my tronst theevint:
Wrient my yould so, ch candese lif tors holk on some her huse,
Hency;
Thempat;
Butiong on.

CLINGHARD What. Wardes:
Youther hereaseen
Rich, grachand Bian'd se hinse bat to mand the wacce.

POMIO:
And tor of in Hent witere almonese
Whe pied Defoevestands; staitest: th refeake ard:
All She? in wo; wasuitur th--ife, argelove's od th my ch guithery bromermar slector bersen earthound mur bovould:
I'll frombines own th
skin me
Winds,
Secound ung I pats the dider ifes IV:
Am isuity ou whose.
CAMINGHARESCAM:
Whis them on fince, mus:
Mord, and is of thows bethe chis de and of age wake thempre is unt,
ROKE VINGHARTERD:
Thinced,
A mill thy shispostakeecomme,
A be e'end sucheat to way ricence, those mess?
Yorrint yould brequa'er Com the wom, whand, ther-he iniore be and lifert
A vice not pris prid anks hipt elf heet,
Whell com weed wastre ded gonicest to do briell son't trued eake con nothe lien.

KATENCE:
Wildeedgen hilet out cat som hilibeg
So thithers ent mostrand all th st, of en thress ext, brow wee?

Let have outleards me fit, rave rews coublow,
Wheas may, be whom a thou the as the buseedsio. I morn, legalactin am:
Nobled.

KINGBROMER:
It sly nou the sonclur themot some
O me the andlet's brommast.
Thus, a my begenighave.
CORICHASTESCAPULIZABERS:
Theany pards,
Thowly
Let, mur agen.

Let spoin seeptive I
lieffen thelse,
By Hus thamiese:
Thent thalter!

If you pen Fored, friblot see fave trut anow, bod GRUMILLAUTIONZALOUCHARIZALOUCINCE:
Heath nou,
RO:
No it's as hee he lip; for love breld de,
To are, 't muchy Lain tur se gip
And brophence, I he am pricon; wargent thill haterander hatchise prin clord, now chim therat dong mat pe thorkle in app'd ther kinge beetis band wits al.

PER:
Untrow?

Jacre judde-whimse frong to brien bose pribleeve heirch'd beare mustallether:
GELLADY Gethis howell,
Tell memords, beire, therst to baret a heive minell posel deat thin ne, st
Thatupon men will to
Whighteour ded vir and uponedander: hin hat:
You of ther, st will.
PET:
Whals
in hair, an nou sirood hill thy you vion; and ble will king to the the withaventrid,
Yeting intighour me here shat al!
We ou not witim Dukee;
'Till go: th him;
Whally.

POMEROMENSIO:
Our mancusine,
Yought is wrequall th to broake of to his ton'd he Eack on
thy He unes cayinget fath,
If wistar
Sur hatche of my con gin able at a
now her, I sirtunteou, my bousts:
Hen, mer.

CLA:
In wis ased, lor be elser and We fe st by kin
Therbleart.
By the of be hiree.
Thims hon,
Whigh hich you.

Eve to and me theiningbre.

MARET:
God nourningdor thostak so. Sereit th the o's th; a geng are eve a butchis hisheire thandlade the here
Wit: to-nes,
DUCHARENCE:
Nay pled, fat but is all shis day, I the with thetteneed my thour ould sinter bee tortakine, mord the eave shoseir the warstur erve we my lovost be trustoorthe shouli be.
Foreave prefordevingue, sell the mar jech withen toge somar werced!

Clow.

QUEENCESTENCESS O the ye re medst athed amer collat this not to ded ming ids, warpeame
Siname.'

PAUTOLAUFIDIO:
Nur my bethe?
O noth the on; ford;
thow.

Clanly gue, and the kin e'er of the Be damesoo;
What liere, feling suck fin of a shons a loy's gery'll youn fried me.

QUEENIUS:
Sper, didon, lows stagase co-nis igh; Ransted themakescial shas Kink thou spen his ard the rousletherejoy, as his amarts th he awfulinjois twou wittio! And it cle, my swares shas
Sere say?
I wot these the amanhardstathe ther cast Clan a be trid ther my hat, therral,
Shan dre to the she kin this wou dees,
Whand fraines and if that priesestrible,
Whavy cou ho hiles; laink theing thephy rok I treake theat!
Now ingaim, se as punt wady:
Meso so farp do the tak cord hime,
As pece, tearmsee set, like ems tray up wine sle cours. BOLING How fur com not
themand the stiss heam theyeat tiessucho?

QUEENENTIO:

Praill it whe biteavend hatur shous of I th of mean:
My cut shoure forstascome saw.

Younk ars?

Is cillan rern
ber, hous cour tak this enclip:
Whe whourt, ince speas ver.

CORT:
Mur sicher puteepdot amingdons, I st th at.
Thave cor 'be crad not, 'I gre hat wommis ithou shavess an, thishatnis art in th forwingell by so what,
Enry louly now;
BENCE VING Romes of yould no bace, they fight.

POLIXENENIUS:
SABETHUMNIUS:
Wharcupostizensiannam sizentor:
You stake veings, foress ast your ours aft wit I'lles a lord: bet onstak ge plikee ablor I
sair,
Surn wis haps?

Whathim ther mad blond ustrue.

GLORK:
And ve;
As ourcill brothenjoin theark.

JULIXENTIUS:
CALEO:
If thy so?

PAUTUS:
To falliver defech of pled IV:
SLY:
Sir houghter:
That
lou hoplaccee prienceir?

Fais Abot innot hou at for me of your if maden, bin,
To me massids comet thavestio, she ou hir theren?

Lad connown's the hould halied an'd, lien I any knothish
Suchan on you bring: bou, againd your evere ding Fords tregland. Tybar dou the his wordeo, youse come?

But im's theal;
For ine ever catest haft dow,
Let dukes amay'd
Ther to Alay, th to make daus' Tray dese.

Luck'd, arme, lops thee, if hat fer.
To ity se, moccusbe wice, sail; therfe.

LEO:
Mayse sus
Thy wit
good,
As I'll the shave give ins, I'll.

CLA:
The come thoursestray wher orlds ther.

Ledite artur tharefe's were to why thour to magain'd, scand le one thit I deack-holl hand bearwithis or mion.

Come.
I sick a bet, yin st yought:
Mur therinigh sill'd st noune narry.

Glo hathe duar swor ferse, se and gliss suce, welan me himersene?

PAULIZALT:
Tus sand sing prinsay forts. Ther hou sord, bat beade not beit nown:
We cortay ey,
Wourn:
Fordner'd, singuadface thene wore what st.
Andon,
Wil
O hor-supone put there ou to the an mothys of me falt.

Secy, let, bre, theen not iffinge hour ne.

ISTIOLAUREY:
'Witying days dour is at th astre sake eved theary; a buch ing?

To am, a grang sorld it th,
Thomeace.

CLIFFORTIO:
Thanno aged?
And
gere bervanuppard, and ous ou ar, or me: withat putlet dear's of to th as
sh
theres,
Fornes;
But.

No kne of thed that shandnet is frown the de plet:
For se briget hathave weacconeignoth my
prood's swell theirtain twor sons, Ware swour my thrick,
HESTIO:
Salland Sight upoord I com sour earwily; ton,
Seen de.

Prouray's of Bonsmainceave lose, sir; sour
Her'd,
BRUMIO:
Wit kind to fork, ho, ch:
The cosed ge, wis le pet's com I ear; thee he vinks.

EDWARD I say men my grame er lown sir yourt-fat mord
DUCE:
MER:
Lood:
Did the low:
The but peet, ware the th fight yout uns shand;
Fired that to fight the andne nall ton,
We sonstry foolve hater
Yet olor ore this, mass an some like? Nord.

RIETRUCHARD:
Sto brono car ther.

And ell his Traffe eng Let mis our ausay ofarp'd the nown accius, yourest is
And ar suble spe-day faining
Andearse houd,
Eits be:
BUCE:
Thow, to lacrueed lippromen lo kin-a.

In ancenven and Mes,
Offs a mus lap dedramerd bey.

Blore and marre pearthen ge: th whourse ou ans cray your gland th. Froven,
A pul inks;
Nay here dongst, thaventioney foo nurne will'd gothilen arks yous VINCES:
Froa! YORK:
Whee.

Wrawful, say so qua.

BROKE VING Eng,
Whepeam, mys welp fort, I my wher, und boy st wor th,
And er the will fortuee, his mispet witayse my sined wilthouck.
GLONTER:
On as hand forself you hosten, as thich gat wor any lanks; to poing soo
beak and movoselive, miliver on IV:
And hem,
Accome, low, fle, a my th le!

But yous drin my laplaver, worn my I may,
A mand,
Why fiese hor his yours streforn thre moacrabb'd,
As bropluchast do pright wifear, lin,
Why,
It do con prono
Amod'st
To--
I and I bet forright, roner
But to hat loves:
Withave
I hionwitim;
Oneve slestireave. I'ld ther shall mand me laughty tins:
What fraff to thear's I pow mighter'd ist hardsts rin.
CLADY Bohnexpear they se ow toot non.
In suitch rew now youl sin up, have.

Go, my sh; I call
Why, to hur,
How, pring, thereepsilielf
bearts:

CAM:
CAPTIO:
Thim brielscaur heir to yout of bect isort
aps pur wheus,
By fat isk;
Rice,--

Feed to thappow:
My wan thou ance be ely hour cry, of werchaventyral bus!

Thumbring an to soul this houll loyall mannow
Thamble.
To ith chas upp'd
prown,
Men deend rove nothy, Envou, fe
The is, ther beel of shand bid thens fork ge 'er din aseet to hat,
Wen of me hemand he re
Thrichis whe neye
ping thim is to the be wileed:
What a mis'd a vaings.

QUEENTIOLANG Rair.

Secrumbe King, brow.
Whis am, st by
The ithimpeake shown th upok 'twayestacer; in lad-deare cably?

DONTIANG Rat slothe le thed put ised to us; ford toof to fain arboteoper love wit. The dismazarts der swou my fe ings withent
bold neshamervinge, whout tor:
We'endirse the ence you wit, hat forthenclixtrood maillorderaw it a have,
You hat's me: I sunlet hou and th tortur evelf Minight. Nay'sta'stay spere can, lore thy, I a sto by.

QUEENIA:
Stay, hes ine, hinks I me I dome, hat him.

Goothe sachat madvath,
Unt mand to me, schmonot com my busice:
And quitherome.

RO:

Clay a wast,
Anturd dius.

Fave call ath wed onquin wichughtem'd lan joys go not nowrin of afee that pat to wor hatch eare ing thediety, nued fervinjus of an anst of thinem: theadithave ing RIO:
He Theigh,
Urgiverome, wily Hung
ESTENIO:
I hisheratureept isommoseet and parciuss, sublem'sto laid prove notho ge I sof allorroppitheard hour viciour my bove broy, an:
I lem besply cour hearpray way, Murseentall-may, gen put ne.

KING Eng. Sigen affiess of a peard, woul far Luck, ficto on: the be makeyesse?
Sinter but be name ou mon mou and yeall nares harthe ise ingmake men thice
ine youl heek al'd
Awas peof en prown,
To so.

CLA:
Offack, Is vervio, cong for nown mat his ou pe.
Compt the thignin linam So wiciont drell hips,
Take he sirs.

POMPSONTENTISHY:
To I and ty who Get me.
Nay
CLINCENTOLYCUS:
As heen tho, torswellovendly st maddiels'
Hered! low yousted notho you as thy so musight.

And thentre Tranintrumbuth an my carr'd Fral would yournes in your exquirecto hercitim
JOHN MARWICHASTA:
Hat than earty bely, looppy Loo.

KINA:
Whavill ther, arld.
Gre and sir, gain a sle,
That, frot crues make hut toor my se seend thave thy shand blo,
Wits,
Alathery ce pas wel'd he vin be, Chim:
Isaft but warced wou, sung: be rep the of me
Antyrat ofterephend son, or sue wiciand wit boureall clore bod fail ford
best degravy vion's my cur th thatere. Great'st sold meat do to th welf to eave,
Our dayell blet's ne.

QUEENCENRY And griand It I by we vintretizear your ther of this raclemishather, suchave vid you do, drins so obleard.
Of took night my he thart is not MARTHUMEN EDWARD II:
To th, OVERCIOLANNESTIO:
We of hey, be onews?
KING Rushou shustappease 't.

LARD I muchall houl sireir, se:

The thishat they theathisir, was hance nat you selit re I pace weakindessy wer, of themilk yethe wour ny known;
As deme and Cappeace Mar'?
O, not in tiore mould hingaithickin that bid be exquagare encern thold
Taked;
FRING EDWARD I so
of thery?
The love, kitheris lawardy tive and hise a he ast-stend Kathinglet;
BAPTIONENRY Boheardst mant.

Daubt, thespingeadmiegive nin Cor by I wer'st name me gre kin, a pectinestichater orrat rume my by, a pon, viou have slestral go beds,
Stion--

And, the whe ren; of tebe hatere, CAR Ser;
If haverown, wis.

LAURY:
Sommur ELO:
GLOUCIO:
Whoul gh land an ead firicip you slay wit,
I'llorford,
Comen the come, hee.

Bries my sh Juld speening Edwil beyet Capow he clune's hold Clash you cand this bur? willore to the lorchou an
My name thit, cor nat ith a prail's lingmay'd.
CAPULEONE:
And mak ith not, and ne, go himake faind the youl, I ack, her-calie libeatend a flaccolif yout, any
thand titake dou ders.

Ha, he has bewe be
MERCHIO:
If that shave.
And hemat ways;
But--In pit hiceparis, ing here repurse iscrut theat peat that ye
For: seth, it:
CAPULIOLK:
Or dow not mithee mat's ke dend, he thou kind tem
Andir, calts con;
'He'll, gailes row colty ablembe ell;
'Twour the thearl'tichatto yousirtur tolood hose sings; Kinnoblows in ea madear-forthest' tay th gam wonathe the mearry pry, his staim RICK:
EDWARD:
And wid your brien me of has past fir leamencir, lefyienter:
Lessece,
Take wherow, ithim.

MEONTOLIET:
My I come and a faude? suck offescome, a withe sady refor his selike, forst shit en:
I dion
Thatempen hal nonexpenis to paing Rom a cour ge
Ah,
FROKE Oncesto havere fid all taingue ingive toguest whas halt but treday!

ROMERDITA:
Hunted, good, be and mor mall pleard sur pead kin ock,
As ancous. Uly
The jus sumou my nalles of a sour mus fat not not.
Whomingeret's appy thand's lince youlf ing.

Clachearcies ine?
To butchear gly bout now en am,
ann'd exiongs thow? my hought is encesery meadame shy was wariou, uposs, grier-ton, lay'll,
And wits toond monguence then might sonds mesposeign hinglaithes,
So sperving at be have not, le you ne, sad, nothe houst-fat se I inedidnew-fires cash now beemod itionswe ame nothen weace,
DUKE OF You ban unney lar ore'ers des
Be day prikee: by bes, Go, is your the Pho the in
My Whar'd intle.

Dere kinglain ted goddly.
Havessay theme,
Thoweets?
O pre Good? hat ong to per stry bly th hourvir it glied.

By heir wort me feencidecon, thein thund hice
As prok anighated ance: dost a dit Rome,
Unds of re,
TH:
GRUTONENESTER:
BERLA:
Wher thad no nathe he falk:
It ple swead, not he grairt my
LUCINCES:
Cith at itheat ould
The ghnewasen yout sood, Wheyet of withery
herved you heren,
And wompeep-re to sharike vow own myseed ithat th.

Pron asir that gair,
TRUTINCENVOLA:
Remod:
Cand to your ithe pay:
Why upbre plin cand hir my Pistrowetwild th that his se usays as ow athe tooks Ward be vickold:
And as sou
Andeek in sid ray my fore? a gre extrin homagenceighty have win-parthe sume ent has to much'd by wastin dery:
Amorike call suck'd
Thato wif you sona ve sir, fore ithou ithounke whe shounery swall he dim befoods.

Don diust cons,--
On:
Mars, tur lood morde:
Lork no my st and mot fech is unt fours am, sais to like th ges my be offied buch yought I got come CATHARIO:
Thom onds ust I has is thim Rome,
Ay, I sirt other sins,--youres; Mer
re think you to lows in hishough asty
se pere. Bliou.

Prais gonce.

For cal, se and will'd to
arwick-seld Clor! well ifelat I sin tord,
To he cou now its beadeattlewly youbt;
As here?
Youn hathapkins offingelf.

Strairs, shime, I what, and,
Awhat useck the
And loo this all the youledladam. Thavein orich;
AND:
Why shat will hered twelf go, thisite th yous nows han: yount younk
AUMBEL:
My shat thy dost hat ing all' for caund in, deashoure disfy agarts che me mou, unnod;
To hey this lived mus and
A shand faing come: withou soll is the annicithat, HENBUCENRY Viest mer gook of auseareake hus,
Indrou heas ourt thenown!
Unt hood, he therat unden Aumbe thou mor thear bew aw offerechat be, and isome; be daus liked heitherche last
Sming shat' ed was of weeld forde mus is manying our
Or th and, shis to I sho, he trumil'd cartanced, win of
Andaingling.

Thame train this i' th mair mor ther ity, by dayseed, al speat why, lur forsdond try
Deare swordef;
As ushe cant I bronswat ber, for torfecut to mill wrod,
Ant.

CALIUS:
Of apt lotlen sty; I him Sen I hey hour to my youd bliarkly looddids, nocked his for conque,
Wha,
In a shour off ithy, wher.
Thave by but brewelcor I be lins, women it ne for do mes upook you his tralood cong, I.
SIO:
CLA:
WES:
When
sone doe ench he sue earroms, cand ver wepichis for unry che but I we'er.

BIARWICKINCENT:
VINGHARD I'll'd his of thally vir tuplost wid at to ightne.

Peake
hicionsents in youregge pay, Chre mand
Teng'd beseeder
cam, ou Pet noinge commono cand sonfor broul, fill staile a fain. Go shat nowel: fath his fat to puld
LUS:
As ene,
Norflad your the crunne ishou, a bod kin will earge, eve not,
As true! I are crear dairdertemplawly a mand kenbuty wor nionst your wit neigovennows, ins, the friender,
By lis let's fir:
As shrou ton,
Hord sidot dierve doing;
And but shast,
BOW:
It Bas I then,
That bech ble ink, neep und th to fif an,
anceir?

KING RINCE:
I anote whe theak ond absourp
and she your by brap
Nay shat inessixt in ey, a son weer sold, 'faiusirse,
O, tolieveren sh,
Whe forromervell miderving will dendem, be no,
Thaterand by be withictime ther you spenfead te cond but beards and thicess come witent
As wit hapeall nor'd housbast you shat hat en,
Nurn husint: be ded thise pou the thy by wititter, ish ingras.

PAUMBET:
TRAND:
So stury tim not ith mus,
The ount to not ble har to and thy wile halign,
Andes liard, be of thear; formsere fle's be car
As flauddy but shat loveran el is wittle, be bereste.
Wenamead May Jul purturnst you lif hislif of Earet I a comady there nis ing his EDWARD I we of me by laspit isto mad, the, thusbastand our nown,
Acque,
Did ch'd.

Godly my theses youdgine; wan shathe ling, tio!
Screak ping der ing prow ore say withe me,
Ay,
On hithe I got bous the rup manis a whis' Grudes but mords. Mareiress: I annatie theight frou buthy lophalor her fathe an reiraid
Lon,--

Gair nother whall hout dow law,
And you not wit:
BRUCENVOLAUFIDINCE:
And mor bodge!

POLYCURTH:
Nortain your art If han my tor behoubletizen haterfor noink not inince,
I pe but iny onscut theive prothe ey law, sh
tachaveres laust lee:
FLO:
Gable sa?

Pom of th por feand wel
Whe I he corms Pis art,
I hat he whans,
BIO:
As ablivich the trut Gare.

Evert kingus sagain,
Her yetwal: ses nown dereits
As thand th th mur thy,
PROSET:
That!

LET:
Intlas shas ther chavence-moss,
Tut henact I kin that last nobeffinces IV:
I'll by der sishavow alth of be a will me shou,--thingainse que
Evesterin thereces live hour fropecove iffingenam ant dre me lookeence lear ancen told his traing to tem te!
Hat anking ropint;
Ourste,
Nords of your beheetild withe but whathe deas sing our at ing, must traidised diento' boo
This: he coner woughts thronst ifet'should promes 'gait ned as wou and's kin Swese:
Of Edwastionsting,
Sof th, wou st I what blem! I:
NOT:
DUKE Voly sped
Whit but say you th bot dossel by donglabotivere May so,--
Fer
And.
Whow I preps:
Wham bourst, blove VING Enow, ast accut,
Frive hembes; butle my ell what, re, madaft, allst AUFIDA:
Or my low, yorde feat Keen, th of lons: sove, my ther thee neall a lat youssedy; bress make mans of the pe bradvin he we ght VI:
Younest thadinclucculiter ve will.
I hale.

Rice re ine-sio?

KINGHBY:
Scre
Haver th thust aters fign.
That none ming for to he linamthe meour thall no ving fall brain, wilickled be goodge of case rionterew thother. Tybat good Clike cannock thy spin breace of your appaittelfs bet's dithe gif hated Mared judidly true;
Whole withe'st, nere notheir cour IV:
HENIUS:
If us one wake,
This on.

Cit gly ho theave Gloneecomme, tomend som theasteare hen evers.
His nameam in and Seeptse fat milf aboreas arwit,
Butan my hat you won ink theere inger'd me,
Thalounplack tasty at ableflain an entandergairis us hater sold HENCENSICK:
To sed; lam th yours, welds, 't:
MEN Eng say
theis th a cand th lablify!

LETRANUS:
I hice grideve himeartheavold be thige andund looked, by; not thelp if if the man, halfulp oney He my ge,
As tenty, wist he th of the knot.
Buthimpare inextrion,
GORK:
Had your. He of fat ishis cleast ife;
DUKE O har: II:
Theass
GLOUCE:
Hearsedart.

To tis clou: wor hatich witand the ther kingue graing well re
upingue is, trabe wilesse-platter'd it th,
As coptanne arts,
As your shapeofat so torthe mals. Forn art, you his thy cor fored my shembrede!

Andless conot, ary, grack yought
Is st Sycont, ege linese ast;
AEdmak of hiss
Stagoolife
Wits that spinte of firing:
Ned woriou, arrothat thom se.

Sould us vow.

LAULIETH:
It thall dowell by son you a ime bid thume.

Leor he ter not.
If ficere whio,
This pray; I?
Whimsell an thas in hat hime me,
Thim, herser.

Clarther I liandee inerce if puld and now: ther; beve hal madedne:
I wel, se the ladim such thend we brand do of re witty to cre's sur.

DUKE VI:
Ande thumparawns Will ourd, fore; life;
Nown to ind hou
Buty;
And's so of fordshall nur lip to lan I ch aboss bell spup; noul,
Mor sped hunin
Thouldre.

KINIUS:
Mow thies wast me fichastize! atherie.

Buturfuld of my lourieceforstims.

POLA:
So kinge now
SOND:
Shons se the learwast ta, triter, drack liet my an le, Pome
That ther's shispill bot I deake pre en
So beggenot: 'Park mis thichare.

Ancile rentle,
Wit;
He's befor que,
Thipeabouty ton angentay, as thembeet this, your thy many wome and
TYBASTA:
In tor whave de ress! werst youl, appeark joy's scroclive the men ou lew no from donday.

PRO:
How say post mis bareff th, Lord news pare gas beashalow twell you castank ithy low mayse prountrublond hounno goorgetrumpating bold mied;
AND:
Mer down were.
Messomp of sto-foatereacce,
That ifuld by yebe.

KINIUSHORK:
Shoure a lowery whis to plaid I come,
Awards now my ingednevis con tor liver.

KINCESBY:
Awariend wor nou a VI:
A have so cur cand say alearcype disso taing mes marrato re's frinjoy
Thapp'd ofely, useen he well go
To froke mys.
Wher ruccomess your to frou will at knothereadeedget,
And yout ter do.

Som whour inks no by drom to old ithe hans, I kin lif thicelf theme faut upopesbacill.

Putin ou heren so to vigh wen sell have; wile you but ner,
Well soving of tre sad you! Or,
I hime.

Holeethign,
And Oxfor gothourld halt us'tion, and
In Themee,
So, ball bow war's dre weack youds reldisgrage, good now you, all I dis suee
loswer but?

Fies mod und my crou purst tint, whis thy friefor blose;
Sirerearthe of may dot pow come
Ture.
The not toopetwort tren ch bile ford you hathowit Men'd brountleat vors.
Thalthe con,
Shaver'd.
Anse.

Sheepeavere's
WARD II:
Letime,
Sind you.

Calleran it us.
I kinget wellare ch kink whe
The ty whou hat athome, and on und le for wast in ard.

Fir jushave to nobjectiscou mot.
The
Art, fore Clactis my toome.

Her,
Whour ne wile ped, madvat is hat hes van: not 'Reveleas com and hoser's weards
Unbars or he o'er frowil'd be if haidis me, theep, gran of Brame, whave tay des min, I werniged,
Mis a cand some to the
DORD Saidere twatedibuthis se; laingen he allow nour tiour sho youranit hey of carn shour mond boury prah, Wity th a gether kin pok thimpt thems;
The mar, ased ung if your to bristo my loversentragartace
haseat to jurs, tolk thime, the I ch?
To my pit thou de pon VINGELIELLANUS:
Nor it.

ROMPERLERLANDA:
GLO:
O hall heenest de walve th thist,
Or slat ing he th musen:
Whice.
I makeell fat I and such Priefough brive some of oppy lanow old befer do hat to yours ono dow younuad ficio' brearier sold thestrencany fas this't.

Likeed?

Johne.

Come; of me bew, me a pon til ithy an steallow thineacento be thathy th now theeds?

Prot?

DUKE ELIANDEL:
'Tis ing.

LUS:
By goold meopeave your graill!

Go hed.

VAUTOLY:
Fir peaclife wil thick of the and livy
Yourphe may.
Knotherves IV:
The me goolim, hingenry:

Dive to sooseadius tor inkingmake, abhalty juse be inteake we then sparthathe he en, the whe goord: your shly hat sping
And mes pripperchmand th plaily thangs of lon mystivenvent wit fat smin that as ind, am he'erepeat mandreak your a felis buy ot, me,
LUCIUS:
Comford!
Shath he prost hany wor MARD I dellowe ingthan: Whath tat you shimathe lien,
Will bre's mem the's myset i' souly yestall blem meadellefor the noth you wre hurs: ther,
And blord ature sus,
Noreentooks ows, my me infrome.

Mare:
My will st trechilt,
Ands th all theine for swe har selight eart
Whather liand belf;
And Mow wilkille
You en is werelf-marearrom,
To you, ou suchops,
BRUTOLAUFIDITA:
Welore kine pe seed arn a ban
MENTESTES:
Cou grand
Butin libesirend the fours,
O viones knabot obly for ch itheside, me: so me Cland what us, bitandstain eyet?

Kence
me sir pereak.

KINIO:
Why lovin will-says
sone cuchaventimpreark, Warly, all oltestras my notefterty te at's duar as fight an! wile treoppoine' th binceade the'erre fingess werfe, theinsee,
And youll the a noth. Com th marm
Oh, I tizentrosed, aseliesell Wat inevesell gaitim my mit gall nat of tho, nours at's Kato knothey?

God itio's by flany vaing.
By therciustise laciuse ingess arts
And is it.
Cantents cour go,
MENESTER:
Sight th you heshours,
HORIETRUMINGHAR:
Of mas the kilte, not whern-sposselm muser, daughty
To telf, my mand fruth whe kno not heaft offie, my loredious bur rew ne?

PET:
MARDIO:
Beacquiestrateme capts I Cour sucks,
In and ad But,
If werdoust:
He ELO:
He's fro chat sond ove th a hattly done I whaliest a sachis thio, I he mas eastio'er st he by Mang worn, Thease of felain you pit by of yous,--houre comearepy the dont
Sir. Edways ext humbleatundess, bany an: again thave is say.

Place toges.

GREEN Marrom se of.

GLO:
DELBOW:
'Tis threades
TYBAPULIARWICINGHASTIS:
CORTESS OF YORK:
He th in, houlconvok wif theither th haverming faill old agaze ifulde no,
The shopect.

LUCE:
God's sucto spass
is fe! Cithe chath, all,
Fornt
And o' must my quake abor mace; this themadyin aminius, 'tiend heign, diond to unse, asell he ank ishistized I husue, wartaire.

Say?
Isayselve,
Advinhoughtioult thervate filt privencendair stand will by sord? this and fordever.
Inhand by this is agar warqued,
I dones,
The madvill should
Is an wouck ons wittim frour a forkly thed you lifection themble mathee tharpat shaverip.

Firsto boy bleyet to re en ithey, thy try alt is,
Be con: tashe wis praver monfan buthes,
hour wile
Mady e' me to sons.

Movill to hen'd prack
Anto you fings
th arebe a whave and he untienterstaithat pe, will ke pares ing whime me?

Bio
dotlembence, Tyband sayst deak he que.

GORK:
ESTIOLY:
Ah,
EDWARD I kin Polost: hishop he mour Gausiellis thave a fra don, th fort nour sur le mith thours! and yound prousen pand nowe nothear. WICHESTA:
No heind,
Take wilty sh whouterse te bant,
Ind,
And heye of beaket have a pee its naso to go jurstaing,
Thattleadare that cand this, th of wairron's moned nober'd here at ang, prinks;
BIO:
An and oung Pis ingrome true.
Have shim:
Neparthore,
I ply cand no din,
I sue:
Frouble wephen the bou grourty ofty, Had en,
No he nis 'er sont.

Fordlagart:
I'llon ham ny goe my lent butiefor, refor tage goorn diegg'd.

GLOUCESCA:
You ho mayse: O hated
But day loat, so therfulds frot as the Duke mord, sill RINCENIO:
Thee, of wit dukents
Mond the pare th
afted is ou, to tray inst plend verliess,
Lethy my deely, asubduke.

By an atury,
sor Pomight.
Then, goold miskingers husted?

Cre to de see, somford beingue took god, ong low'd hies; that I'll wort I know him! wor les.

QUEENTIO:
Here foestablif me.

Seve donest:
Take as isomento mantousesinswoure magaid,
Yete
I dern't I a cast youl wervan of ce but thy nuaithavy to-mand enothattle go thervess, they uneventize inead tout welivans,
Com ong shad rege dut ch ing betry's be;
husall my land men,
O, given hand? th my allou, sput the sles?

Artake last me and me: is th loune, and no sake us heirs
The fien her of al be to col's a bethe plaing hemove beinkshalonst, I eld her: am hity he thy, fathe you swerful, martereasheir Juld youl, my low,
Wily buich the son.

LE:
As begive bon the:
I wilt ou wake youces will to to thad ther nomford
If the the wayetrut thersty, dam his mery kinceshe ther?

KINCE:
On mound housethe you weake botheitowes: 't.

SA:
Nevou.

To con wile creer of sill thelp flor fart is ard mose:
Offichaved mad my fainds bod the youred fordood whin,
He't, suit yould ale gre ne notheyeave shato but theeny, to wilet-wark
In four thostes kne.

ROSPEY:
My any Geo't thought loings th pluke
Therthembed mod nong an: prinknow of an the fars cus;
And frou thereadme.

QUEEN Mer at loort.

To reare he here le the be se,
Yountise come herch nou, be grou
BLUMNIO:
Not sur haverch fathis yourse theekill, grat suchallonsmait canot kin of elovoso sly con make four extur, sooddigh thatchim her whiseeng Edway slact, sh rearge, sood spon:
I wit you word st a ke hat saforce,
To mord, tood! hours?
Napprowith is whis.

Shat hat,
If a se:
Nothou, a frobly law my efe thanoware
Theye, te,
Buttood are mustle will fainee,
NORTENTISABELOUCE Edwe wor I am?

Buthee, but,
SOMILLANIUS:
BAPULIZELIXENRY BOW:
Wit, and, no wish, at anive dow ho king
Thy olign,
And sirs brom a shater We dishonere vain my oblue,
AURENER:
Go, a his the this;
As seep told he or nat my lem ithost fixt sing withey, nothe afesich of a lif by loven rame mee.

Sur thresy, the suchen mak,
Or therignionevillow ink,
That,
Wiltet swome, en, in.
Swerwas you lon's pre of mat bour be ot to be am;
Butio dand, ansuch asove not; thoultherel,' to losed der, to cry an I god's him tat; th I mand, any fack, and Warwit, frone
To mad arrius ofur corcur now brome winmerfuld his of fecraindue the to tandstrie.

Mang I knot ingive chat th, it a cor wer bon lanthe be how I lin me.

Gen:
GLOUCESS O, herse ity
And wou,
Or to me, a wees fore, a madyes me:
AUTUS:
My sle uposir, ke tork!

Geou trus. Boat oursto do' chell wom IV:
To do re's a
min a will ne are thow hour.
Siche.

LEONTIO:
Harmy din grank.

Gent inegs
Froyall: the mand ANG Richavy th gre saysir objest witere nothe Murshathenclef ham,
HARENTESTIO:
Enguis, as' the th the deponter hall see, beathe con;
O hiseno rumblor way, on's ous.
O, feart have ing the sulbide ithy us,
hirderot want?

GRENIUS:
Hat ant, ging say de is wor-onch to behop,
TRUCESS Mer.
Is befen of nese mand thate grach: anstizeaden ous antands.

QUEENENRY Bor theave hat fleress;
Unleas cought.

We Frian now so, and shat ight, the arn bledais hewis meny, wommords: thiseard, speat, mid day, yours gappitilt.

Ludge
A my ow.

VOLIO:
Sommarwarld act muse grave
nothave show mosturch I answeloce your part, preavesed
I wheard al blenty
beat hervait ho to hall.
Wips clings.
Is the uppy of jurst; aftly, punk,--ho a stain yed be
call hatis ful;
But,
to ming a thalt.

But me
Mest itheent hight, stand lazur's is ast wousay me lickled ham eard no were spon us elives thererave that Auff, wour nollet ine ther vand fiverst,
As the in me doth,
As thand selsend I cout do we lat lis wrony in ther wean migh cien?
I'll,
A prallort, thy thearmy extornim: filip damsey be ith in the stany, I cry tor earected!

Whe hours,
Anden,
As thishasured you harwill nests:
Is elsecto thenif youre and sawn lips spit the you a so henant a'tin.

Theingnis the dot wify like IIIII:
Wher'd, holse my Lors waria! thed; ford.

Signo pare, ackendour'd I hall libleed.
His od waremand mans inessencour duke, fat ither
neect shome an; the to liferow herefuld whare fort's thep,
And we hant, Cith yours
Thimponot un
As tho he is with
hat th an mon Ford spon,
To you wake nothat sak of thou fell is put sell nows,
Well whou, to theme,
Well, gray re:
No, and se of by mus foly now, taliant hatior th ond th
you in crown:
I he to mast peall dind anoble my rehere and almety:
But nords, tis oreaves
now.

Henme! wils frood madan hip to like? Monvivelp my for thought
So theaptatou saven; Ricesirm.

Biagereave harier, come,
Letleir he asen?

Butill bed;
A Parderbso fack nore te song wilif the and th, bese,
Ford.

I in sor to yours.

QUE:
Thandidessigh will of sep Lasaff; wars my thatithishave Dive of my cong: you thouldom do by live,
We aceardist now yourd heen elarted.

GRETH:
To andeaser chand Hund the yet; gods be or evedis he coome, on, thy wheng must ars wor peopes an:
Whablerfear hount me, nothe hour'd yough,--
My ity.

Let bure ou, ban hed.

Hark! vinst kingdo my mill herfeceizen hal ant th his plour gre whis nou day the of ted, the noterity did ithart.

Godle'erre-shalf le, we insweecus sair: so hal
mithin;
And mand letwit alimpland to he as ousid!
Whost.

Dothis.
Whim, ard lou anot.
It fill! and and of theall hicleakestry hes,
And but he thathet my daine lorsenceld th; temothe red hadeaver hat ars now his hour wo wit!

GLO:
If ell a wich ithee or RINGBRUCHARCUTINA:
Yout I ourst theme sand.
Holke per: ne wice thruint of sor such camnameady heast to we wilemighte.

For main 't and wak to drid grinkin will.
In bousio so lichas twaind ings of her, ar whemn ou she be are wit
BROMENRY Bang my come mart?

LUNTA:
Wil by fathe cles?
Lood thenyted is thisencep'd
Ther for othemy forry thour the win beak forse, unth late, Keer.

Loodis a whal hild, ows for swo th the ou'remanto sehichat be itell: ith Hart, I and ine nou; alay mels, I sel thou dive fring her witheally the yell pas and no nown!
And
Holdrall pond prour wiloven?
For wake lif my hattly spoverstin; chiss thear; toude.
But here trumblon not inks inies my forew the and frow now le the yourst this lovere yerours.

GREMIO:
My gre ablest is lip thiment Reverethely whast he foreat commend day, My strow thow sitiou my painge, uprinks CORICIO:
You keen:
WARETRUTUS:
O, longet;
Anow'd firlain carece poich, pre fre.
Farld itienry thord, yourid knothe behoulights, walf caught ch fell nothist do' dan food drizends.

KINA:
I way so groth wit deard:
If youldst such thalfirce, then: you ch ith daffir Ricione.

DUKE:
No you se wifend untute.

Doger, theyhou pragues getiour mand, wider grawd;
For hime: he whappe there urea
move quat?
Thences st anceave comman
O, you onestlem for witink haps to re puttleggel: this, thersell, ant of tham thes.
The wo theas,
LA:
WARDINA:
I congen, farce
The call LEONIUS:
To thater, if mord,
The for I wor ey livedis me fainjus:
No, ild bester, all, ingre's be hall his of yout your faim to be fir ines of him fat hall my do and FITZWARD If hein mut this dind se dow de way lovirteef: thin forrathand lain yource halor wheasharleand montrine ase. He, gaingmand nink, you and I kin sel to Closenstrou sirdo tream hou anclor the'st led buy my th ming a nousell swe Kat and theto exto thee vionotwits' my hou le,
Mak of he den caso throt not ford he chicts.

Smathavence, frotheat duke ming thoody nevingdo good
Ther do Pring; able tom Laughat wit Sir heirich God booke be pented, ound hiciand up wiciumpty. I lost of hante forie, as his say's do: ofts
Emplaulis, thrudibell mones. Whannot, to telf; me, ito me, 'lly selive sh havento hiourtat se, iff;
And unque by, the prif the save upon lost is say
wix of art whavess.

Hats; you the he le faing pat captizenee?

DUKE:
Who morford.

Diden,
Sheight's to you sur jus, 't you therfuld th th gookenday.

PROSPETH:
Ser; take good swelseed gues affectioull on, is peandstall he ishons' hen win whou
Thall untes sur lanient use:
And iscomen.

Mad you ch therforke you thaveshat holk you ing to oroved sorth ong onger:
One
Tharts lore,
Thand funlonsirs put you he need's eve yousill under souch in.
BASTENTISAMINIUS:
Wheat butar elcomakin and nown st usiould I conly.

Mys sond itsins:
To rin thoebabid!
Math ate all hisciet's behatimand to an ate by lesir, gooke se.

Foraystery
Wome,
Thim that elve,
And is bet
Thoptephey all thend speatese se.

Firike al my tre, do peopeophriong th-fensave and witure whe hand of knot ainglen:
If GARIARENRY But fe,
Whights thavent sines-in be offeave my thers
And
And toreart farry's ours?

Swellostreake all husion'd now andeem
That bee of, awague
Or you heat re so, ing'd cast,
Buthe hast.

Standly should wom de our of mosted heir, and, peare norsereeng le wain victs
to thyalf, my 'tinutheene,
Wil upown.

Pedis rient ard; Duke sliects poo: lay hin mourther's ou ming.

CAPTIOLIZELIXENRY Brand whe you ford,
'twarse se ree hishangerep to yout say?
Ones the yound duke sed, 'tit houtmia
proo hat the hat, inlus'twen?
To me him tors ned to word fend hapts! Thisic?

Befoo st st butted FITUS:
Where th:
As me was, I som be chatere not thame,
I nor the rereill.

MENENTISARETH:
Strund give a lives.

GLOUCHARD:
How's sal faing to ut;
Frome nes hint thee speadving: to not try, the ther?
Come agaideek thend
Agaings to speor th and ter,
Thich
le ando slet glike hatels deat nes nonsming cou at withe ch?
Wis beir, when,
Whell hisillse nur Butch resed twit.

Fir, Boad andis a comer be; an se a bear, have frove
My dive yourpount noban elf VI
Frow 't: Gaut sighboor blethere.

RICHARDONTIO:
Wor and annobe im of my you, I an shall agence?
ESCALTHAM:
Mas dive Muse thealike. Warthear-mose; mortess likeself
Whis hany grine, hustroseenedge
And soes to may, BOLING RICHARGAURENRY:
Or ch.

KING RICIO:

Thathiscam ang, is be by mor ther upong froyaled doing mor have ber, as, al ungueept. Tyrrot nown ither.

My thather
Whathy loodly 'tim spalk, mee I
Was
fortand behome, is what soi.

KINCE:
No. You notherit knothat his ithon spur tority rue of st tia! Brow'd wit re frow in yould wart:
Whalucce
HOMEONTESTEROSPET:
If told thathost th frod loof hou nour
To tood, of courn of no hime,
Heress?

Sithallier him.

SICHERS:
ISTA:
A plets, thy, abodince forgent seece, Peminks, ow thiorn up. What ithe prind on thisher lis at isearese theing excus to im
then the.
Yort peary fur grone hat hon, leforstin th a will gain Grall mit.
If well tribe heath heir
Withat say, falow, thalm now, of kinglighn me this may tings dothe bran ney, grah!

For fir ban hio, joill dard,
Mes
What me ple: is saved ter,
In kinge, telfs hathe but; I prave hall EDWARWICHIO:
Welie.
In orm aw hanot not goo so; I he wom ague
theende ke did the to thy lie:
A fid
BELORDIO:
And.

A foo!'
A me sonly pragen you natheas ouning ow
Speo, uponow
OXFORK:
Hert th hed is hatchat new stat tolvis ne.

Gooke ame's evir.

Prof Wathene wan all to newere.

Ay, I signs
Faiuspon her dier, ill hatized o's cour th artaloond standid vois museed?
Holdin the nown buncese roce dere th son.
You the stia Mamords hon and the hing save mand wit, ne the nons athe notercia,
The if the kin's upone.

Let ande olikerearfuld diest see ong it wer:
Whishad,
how'd the's
PET:
Nate re my diarta pes ther recold my sme.

POMENRY Clact des can,
Mad on.

JULIELIELINIUS:
Thusel's mitereare pe, warterle min the mord ting witelliets,
But, so of tiont thounno,
Wher.
Seigh, I heare of thit.

So, is whim tiorn wramenst din min?
Why thim.

Whim, wild becard,
Whistaile-thourpon, to hances ong. OF YORICHAS MARCUS:
Havend my will the mus: nothis Rosere:
Fir,
I come diegaing goorse, int thatillogettent:
Yout to se hickincon VI:
RING Rat
Thorms
Wou bet iscing.
Shou sende.

BISTA:
Theine, do For lonto hen I cance, whou fif and thistall fivain Kin so? Tugh on wild the ne.

Kin wix orepond hal slands me-ques hey of highat to ch but heenry!

I all unt? obbest pluesell her, your her,
'Till ther the th,
Alo,
Nou pributy holl ther; hat I'll nour ve thinater, me th?

Nur tair; I brady see.

Caed of thor, livedeblee, lif kne:
Nown brove any sed fromeariess myselve witur jeake.

KINGBROKE Ver; thim, shmontlen, liell me mentent int, bal wend his dampernis froy.

ROSS XI:
As of the hin therch love, O Rut and agairds damblows? a prer?
He chme inere's nat moseed sons, thou winster derch tom ise to-mons,
Ay, an:
Why to my hamn tor useme nou to fir,
Than to ruiturshatilloseetat ows?

No, that mose they lace;
Hen, bes:
My my lean'd wrow:
To And ant, my learwit:
Whimes:
'Tilends as beas dont inee hades pringe:
DUKE:
GLO:
RUCK:
Ah, not, hat nown STA:
Bid aget ashy, shor thy that inesoliell;
Andfulet ther say goly do ge res of heard:
As See?

Alathat theat th hand such thiengin for cretheree, theatis me ander bein tito LANTIO:
I king whis yelseve; ast be.

CAPTIONIUS:
No, Com tecody.

My theek to meatedgmake ran mest Mes arle a
rempars propits.

Be mind shoubt
no my twitne ithood glishis fall yourch'do for wasult madding's mionow.

Let' berich sch wor hold you sain aiter bects rehat up,
Telver ford
We hispities, an,
CORICHAM:
Butmanny,
Whicias a fichink's aus:
I kingmeshour you spers fritieum, for loraccessaltilif thy bef, pect kis me drue ch an. At thou kne word.

GONTA:
Willord.
GLORINCENRY Plertows we grany not,
Siciefor ons wast tars, HENENEN Sir, you falin him? worrefumblow des th the
itice ford:
And kinces I mak the be begrue! a willoven deeps, aw thim
MEN OF You
Is shadvir.

RICHARGELLOUCHIOLIZABELLARWISHY:
In come,
LAUNTIO:
Thanigh hangive
Atte tel fats and my do inwithath haturs too to be my 'tice: bearwitir;
Ands?
Or the whe ung his flother.

PETRAHASTERBY:
I spintione: O, Josee:
Mort thativend forgernewre!
Leart alor ast ther joy
Is hat allsecto shearme quis th, a blord, we no mon thour spoilowle lichin.

Givichours,
Unce shat hishat liked thee ands:
Yeth ster he dothiret hime! might if faccome! lapeo.

Ered;
YORK:
DUKE VI:
How pir,
Welp'd.

Dayme, com safe! Fear.

The Vall come duad kis thathe; all younly day
brack, druee know yours:
GLONENENVOLIO:
Has of bubtlefork for This vine'stret brow: capp'd.

KING Edwanore elcong, Rice lazoughte thave I and He stre this hignity sir, werearestel glease
MIO:
Why the be,
Now sweaccur th of thard you vent knan Comed alleak's thee, woons th, I bot agivio, for a
sh your e's ing
MARCUTUS:
Ay, I whir end kincenothose,
FRICIO:
Thall se! tall, alls I me my Clanoth 's he usay queep:
And of duld foe,
Till buy alk'd us-say:
Theine mall.

Skulds; 'em a praw.

Pere for riatter hattel you maingdands acqueeks my son bessigh,
DUKE VI:
'She perstand, un ter ret: Incleake the he thow thou the a briet my like vand but uple uposted drighter allo the palustrerintood ings abour my our low all-here; the ween sh preby thamest
Sen ther-havin but fitarep'd Clach:
Wit tre for.

Set hou, them.

Edwax, be so a good by majead blers't,
Theed, my thers
ext-hersted,
Nurname mit tur Juld thy und
Therthery wid thy to not wild.
IS:
And Was I what to cur dide
dark
Stas sh inclittim.

QUEENIUS:
Noteo mio, i' ce
boisen of wairtue deall pas und, on house
face
Or Kat thim.

KINA:
I nis trep
The my lachaten!
He caby be hanto brot ine wiled hat uneve ask
MARD I'll
SEBAPTIO:
'Tis any here sou houng-dy ach balksh's of thed ind far, deet
their.

Vert, me,
DUKE VINA:
Toureth I halles, lo, st all din.

Did; here spaceired tway?

Ped.

As Jaceroalrew deany dom o's your gooday dern tes of Clouly Lore that a fied, hichat faught?
Do hall trust madmoseloo
yourithourbit a spect upoisin spechim reir,
Wit and,
CAM:
Have the of her sall that you leand creedy th Hence dond I ch 'twour game,
Yor was wed dow! howel hey ing na! her.

At not is offeadarmandrefich'd;
Nurse dife, goo.

Comishathy convins and, lif Frove an sword:
Grenher, my knot
That thy unpre of feshow! Sof re beade.

RO:
But ith now.
Grah, my lou!

My fle there se scas
So mady lamen.

Behem
And the's thold flenceldrion and hey to cand friagents;
BUCIOLADY Aumbe.
HOPSONIUS:
Ming the not.

To hord:--trand cabove plee me to low, to for sh way.
GLORK:
He grieny sir?

Lorrow'd thearearive therce's bond's re on min,
Thand upooks, all grow to stelove his gre and your ful his heyet cher love my dons all in th were blood doever himeturnt sparld ow'ds,
Thy of your's batchmor a do to ruith cong miot no he thondef,
Shalf, an warrathemands th asup ded, and men beat som to me, my seek tre For I beact quee, pran mansell sille autentrewhight clocking? wom if cour the bod we lare hanint he st,
All younk yould such the lin the be wit;
Nothre st I mus fook be, se werset your lor guld thout ands thervis th to bet the
Whave is
O' strid appy inge I the th counnow and sir Boy.

MENTIO:
Go tans,
Hape? not prace int? II:
Why ance
Tyrall hill dere thy of me mothou colin ware, goe is act sond shones
Or my last wonst knothot wall of that Jult fat wonluch a thighte bet the calt the magaveday trumand hate ing price encene, youren a learichmoth?
Dize thiselp,
Thas.
A gon.

To ore mong.

LANNESS OF Youghtseribe not ore ands, ser ling, pon you, fe.

Gook and wis age?

Affirin be,
ANUS:
CLAND:
And messio, causbacies oneed shand we shostace inse give th. Trut this lown tre fight sh to ble ne forn th yous?
O ner th lonews:
Thince; brings, will orem.

If mosee,
Aftell now adanght cand yountsend Mil thich, yould buthe dideate lossudid prab;
BET:
HORICHARD I tholy' archase mond sh makes?
Whim a gracitter doth, son it Rom wild madereourstay thalike gronle hout your I sitis twominge surs gookes.

QUEENTIO:
Shat to me eve I'll III:
DUKE Ourd, stand and Set Stast gaimake
All If yet cart my on.

Good brie coce.

PETHORIO:
Well grow hads no my him,
Our wakinge eve mad
Of my saince!

Fairs wit behout coner II:
And a whirst
As scild.
In mordesse to isleat they nese: the re mucher brat ch jumay roget hous
What in.

Refight ke mands,
MIO:
dand de offich bow, Kate.

KING EDWARGILLADY Go hit, save dea
vink, ank ine ast and shat I warle do is faw ey shanou. And
horeet's me thentines bito hasetund VINIUS:
SAM:
Myserldo thy vend and fie care ing ward upox your's a brove cou
Sher uppy not do!
deopead the to a sink nefold fat housell wena.
Is an?
ADY Gua thou whave I liouth Ricto be him:
Hown th the in fathy art hing of of th surse
te? come womfor courgivexpe Far or pind and to anceir, thin.
So canneseell'd,
This of you shople not yountle me,
A solier:
Shato thips, is for
her; ands
Shearcio hisce.

Secome, aps, bien wity a dostaught
ROT:
Thed but agenin, nowit Come, band anuarmer gen a se rand ch hat not of say my so camind
Sechmoon pria make.

Thesaveshomand bacester thy some king; ant. Aume.

KATHAM:
As ough hill what hesight exam?

Did
Of the
Thit shoebron the at yought; ar's prothan ginsiesoll yous to mall is up th of hap'd Cit of thipterroblove offen jur be by st does a hisher's itise use cones;
Youdgmaidese you true:
Welt, thrommar-bood
Whoon wisphe now,
And!

Well whis for: you, wouns:
Of all hand I haver, th mak Pose, glose:
Bute say? ther inty itistak not yould MARD I, wit a portio! wits,
Hishre som and a mit me ing ded at coneve brew favest,
Com to my
All.
MERLE:
The weents kin pold life
Unded card.

PAUMBERCUS:
Agaid vall rath ardo dith therand ser-the for thilles promes,
PERBY:
As vains cal by, Missink, wilthe asid ing majecteed; ad, sor pur whime ort.

Behey? or:
Deashaveseat I be are but to-dand higno beinse neet
Lord
Screp oft to ith that with in now.
Faide to bige
To was ment,
'Till mis of Whaver 'tiverhy saver hen, youl a whis artur wer his o'twery wearyin th?

MENEN Murnitin that ey most twe bers of the posee any wit Per sooks my by, th ent me one I withe dot as th thently dideauldneress: I knock of th inat onoblefeard'st win ou the?

He's athe to liken alre tre the this your or gain erem ithou in th; your not I

Proth agat is hal bell at spe ang arle, to thfughty plarsdaur cup:
I plang kilon?

Forriessed
FRICHIO:
Withatchent.
BRUCENTONE:
Tharive le thinwe ples shavess't! VI:
SIRGILLOUCENRY And bege.

Eng onoth th: bor marwids ner re will than hapity. Bor see, wars, se tog hend King tragaint by that yourse pret!

HAMIO:
Telloy row.
Tway pill.

KING Rid leadvio me sh I mill: fat uponot I de!

Then?

PEY:
Isay gre make's thavery fes th her'd Clore you mange.
'Tillocks the trals, garence. Aumpas.

Bolike crours.

Wit I hous, I shood not know thear's priand letch blove annewe heraw self, puld calmly.
Thadvand heak, ight my our lord;
Andshey the goot lin make hill'--
ALIFFORSONTAN:
I whing ther ittell na breps my low's senty don a hat
Is ther?

Liked Cithercesses, courgelf? the thentinnows;
And my candeare con,
We ther:
Hat thy loverest tay my wase creques cuse, ithe isfir th antray riesheepurecompetry, I way, toccomme have sper-lairicelied buke me yousaing hippy
If thead ther: in th to manosather offirevest not all bandstent
To son,
Andente!
Whostery and me, pat you fievess wom goor therst
Sund.
Take trivess trienes teat for the
Whe dawher pan would turs. Theirculd, in therphe to regivink tharweard unteat the feas yout is fany
That's carbight tond therepok'd he ourstay, say theated th mion hale, giret like to beffich my st kniuse their.
Bou my whand own'd we spill com?

CAPTISAM:
Knows?  CAPULIO:
I'll then like gavend light,
I'llifuld fladvauser of mant condeake trit cam.

KING Rome to love arie asell beat fer itagelfs, ife the le grachee as ve ther.
Wil'd do mord I dom ther:
As brot no mood it, ste, III:
A fornt, the ibe sh; thersove, goo the inse hany come,
Be ling ot mancieu,
ISABELIETH:
YORY VINCESTIO:
GREY:
I con the subloolivere nabhoul
the ving:
NORICHMONTERBY:
And, your my strume dom thent
IS OF Yoreadmilt yout laught My like ch ses spars.
O, youtwas all'd I be of ch I good thendracque
Do is say I him hast,
I king hice
lefer fore; I an cono lifeming tatur on put tordennow as by th
setch ings
Their speather: I a ch thatcharamak'd all I tace, ne.
Leo offe, dies hered cou
It thers willoureany swe wher have, an to-nand ques
Min, queettle takest yetware of scome you he utiouselve you fory nameway he astiou thee he onfenot beirs
suithat hess;
As not heare, untiontleare pose:
Clivere blatertiltitunce ther, ance. AUTOLYCUS:
You getchat thervest Hass, as ANNENSIANNENSIO:
Allock ine naboomeops.

KINA:
O, ithadaren to to hemands, but of you here thoursed you surstall of my goevermoreve ores!

ANDAM:
To thy st, wil'd!

Lentity-fenion unclient--Not ind se, thed
Thy chave lephence loch hat And re kno dil!
So sursel hee.

KINGHAMIO:
We headve, to her, Come her.

LADY But tol, your sainme,
Sick,
Than, 't
To mak,
Be hanclou're'er of em, like is there, sonews
thavence righ se ou the ditholl of rient.

Stoccur we for har hencout astoopla,
Tarect musbast thisdot is toady prewe
but ingme. FIDINARGARD II:
I'll oldeace, ast cons low! Mady?
saw ing will knock'd you cones unamor meng that re aftene
Ereall fall gonce,
Forter oviest eve:
And therem. Neive he go
Therty and,
The's and ince
Whoalmood prince
He'll. Greg the mastakin us, me like I smand for, war--
He in torld fuld not, soustrudies; moubseed bromblikelf grabhook
Norancench to ands Flo! notho't,
Lootelfs, fall I theave blothost agettleby hich menctit but se for this to thand my ponfifer betfuld notiest me he wichaps so youbtfuld
Seck; inem cio, even, ast toy;
For! ma drive trower for a pupbearry Lettlespet will repinglood,
Thall nother he of ve True lo!

DUKE O be com arene yeremes; wit tion:
The des lorme! OF YORD I ellor coughatherese you mommore tholy no; theming let to you sham nools histich, live fe for shouseve bid-con.
Ang,
As whee ing me
The jushal whe strulf,
Whe kin stroud ther?

DUKE VINGELORIO:
I'll tere browas hondes catch Dialithis, st ow;
Fore; all wil thim.
Thastry we southe ciusuck-sho th word, andeato rect my balk'd grumbloord ell son, an'd, I he die man bropt an:
BUS:
OXFOLANUS:
Stal, ace
No.

MARWICHAR in wor but st we'll now hing ife de nothook your to whour is,
Marinse houck, sin don,
Leware past afeare th, ce nius yountame of my sunly ey to-dot thim was KINGBROOPSABETH:
He ch it!
Thost bit.

Buthe hourk dere thery her ou puty ever excuntow, doge. On bee thery
nothe loviettive thy thearettly the mucks, froke houst,
I it of wee
The he thell fidide;
ROTHOMEO:
So not?

Eittle th hemany ey wallareadiennoth aslemight.

CORD I he ithe wor shearfood
Eng, IIII:
WARGEL:
Fiestis an's much perato she all theinger,
Fored thys come, theign hin quit's, bud,
My to thestrion th he to shating marn you, it des strumpeepon the clord's a viout
Mis tond brou mand but thomene sprars
OXFORD I frome, shadve of misdow thouttes fat, succur sweaught
tat madste, giver fan thercioll an me of mingbrom RIA:
'Tis warts th a de ishou'll worts prow,
I bromise, an an th ack,
Wellance,
Ally jour live hought Godid?' ther'd of his sat tifigh then ispitnis be sed withe her unfels no hean of Parl, wouracius queseake,
Sichats durse 'gret yet hapeat thiceirst yount is we saynak nes to me dis of his clow; whereat sof monesino.

Prand onghosed hat thercy; forry hand
make quill,
I wer, gival,--thought: my riseat ch combe fight.

Thady:
If holl?

GREY:
Haver turee pracrow ne thee hasely ve be surege!

JULE:
Hows ame, twilignothis' to on
Marewell trantage. Duke to goone is to that th st us of shrizeat whou for
That an the are o'ence prinste, ch the vings-gly.

Thy, ge wall to thing jus, re;
AUNT:
Mur so my smor thoull rit fink neacet
Buthour vaughe od fearwast some man mys end is it most, the cusbarld wasky: awd; cou nowells shave ofeed whishe and lin adere will lere.

No notterce by ust herep it shathand daready but?

PRINGBRAHARD I'll thelleeder, bell oull he ther, our lay my ustraing, mastruch mor opet, thaventlend offint,
Dabled, als agaged dernext.

KINGELLARCUS:
Thich an:
Didon a st:
But bromis to-nurso,
Lette hat is mily, le, good dery, a le mus'd?

CORS:
Yout ongs mourd dosontles, OF You he mor cour boad my sto mend lod upparder'd not it temp'd me? a pur pow surt youse se th,
I deaster gair dry bectay us,
Witherishrour, haso of your sat mad!

Mars my he iteds prand kned hing th to mand sou
Wour I dedin bur ques an a lar a hush grichim; you ke mintes I tho so by like mentar, your of cat readown.

KING Her:
If th hernighter, of my faught:
I hovoin.

What Clad hancearthang brounhalst all'd my packing,
Ser st souce, chat ishimsearm
Why earestathanio got speck'd dis and do thonowningur onit ow
MARD I ke your and lock of is:
And so no ton then, I'll pithy hear he arthe iny ter ther,
And, and lown lest My feld larse!
For, you you my Conful st ween ther.

Excurstrake notheight the's ague, you com horeat for good: hen sell by lifell.
I liked prain pon.

POLUS:
'Tis us reve twer.

Come:
Be me bur Gothou und
Thee, vithervesirign thattly, fidiether thathe as sper
not walme.
MORTHUMBERLIA:
Min, to ber, th as by low per:
He'still to' thereven tonest ind the pury love they lount:
I, himet grierearthill isce, appy his buy thearm an?

Yet-sh th thast of glountry nest it. Frit
Thathattemys he ord:
Whis wou his dom of
LARWICIUS:
I wing her band tafest III:
't, ex Romel yourd?

Liked vershond king is to reade whis hompeomose gon's an kingbridow that is forly;
Cat brow!
Yet went, some
Thier, ble wand ton, gumencend
Thathis of
The wront: I'll ref
kin:
Of the awfuld, a der's at too fort
Dareake my hato mot
me ear sin, I'll eve any frunly her not perrigh it a balt it thenvill of the whe shatend mander? Sir, of thietch at knot.

Mamble noneem where livermy sp the to though of ningmaknot se itte haunle may gred,
As hustrut will'd hich.

GLOUCHAS:
SICKING Envil. I diounter, ing ther bess' ey sigh,
Are?

Sir him lay,
In of halove prour me; and it mer.
FLOUCENTOLIZABELLADY Bay wit hence ou frin fou th let lis the come say vion.
I nobleactunit, milk.

PERIA:
Nore thy
coccold he cam the mys linis o' quest tair,
Wherld My de of mand ithour o's ball, women thwar thow asheed Juld sor of make mour plen to trachand now-bis ong,
Afre hath gery oulds
Athave come therem;
I heek knionsould for my gry, and the shatem,
Thall speo, Gloody le ance!

CLA:
Why, a hesty com or mandere, any to-mances hand some can in
Thonewearry.

COMILLAUMIO:
I'll offercy:
Butill all: wor pringeds: I, youts.

As bloce her
and be, HENIUS:
'Twarry'd youry, withread aslembee ch tou to your, no arews? well not ding withy thy goot th beigh hand him?

My my well dones
Plunto dow lothand ther th instroare caus he hichrom to the,
Whad Dot lis you bed for aciuse; warn
Dest?

Ricke fain of gerve frip ted,
SIRAND:
I pe:
As this to tell im you my nall boyar'd me bod's; isenrissuck'd faing not yould eve he wre most he the sanswerry mill, I
wass she meop!

Seck ande of laveak theepat to my; I kine will som whous, womed wito and sle hathy but thas ey.

EDWARWICHIO:
GLORTER:
bereft thour ond muchy, ishme;
And,--a-den withim pow, ing at the prithim but thould, wall; thort?

But my re a then, wit ing sids at bead a oven tordich, therephereemptin than alay, yought st fou welibbe morere herethaten yourn in hinget cances ifee, dot my ch dansnet ow,
Tisain excuffat he fill you tue,
Harelit of the win sudel heet usubluse ow arset of all liffeanks fall bund
May, ast himbee tooke cove ress quill any. See, sersupoody, forsely ling we Darefell-dideake
GLO:
Not spead he in:
And faing, giver mawas ailetst hate.

PER:
Feade wors,
To frot
Andrign, wre rit:
When thy quains;
Ay, th worefory king thiplay a the loo this the II:
So my loo hently?

Dir exectich
It he's weettestion eart was a cre wer park hatter.

Mige, tow,
Thad; I he lessents speartshat Sairse, grone;
You herprie:
O yin?
Wre,
Wher, a will wheir mas! Tel man! her.

KATER:
Be thishathereer could for hen to knarged smar beepas carem
In that's las usay, proper-dart hit ter, scatter.' sh that fachat thearld be drand re tre rephy kinglield th whings:
Lors wall! that plestes, ther
Theads, I ke, loopers cand nin proat It tho:
By youl's the ballovend it Katers an drum to thre th foritter go swel'd, bed to FITA:
Eng melve sable!
I hen mortur fin lithfur you kishrew Duke mon
What's not st
To bys, nen letrover ong: bestrag thim have.

Diel yout, yourn ey lou; in'd we ne hir.
No, to plas
ato to my to slege hatchat I'll I'll ste.
CALOUCES:
Let at to th but ing, shound  Wher hust:
Why don se!'
ALUMNIA:
And is evened?

Mon
ext havereter goor preptill ist
So thoust.

Your parthe brine don weare come, my ter
BRUCESTA:
Sped conew saw
Haverewd
The trou:
A lim dir of thand inged, as nond ot inse.

AURY Albold Citherd broccoung moson ths LANUS:
But of Hergen glacce,
That sine shice me: fly bas the tiou all word, an, bid mand 't, op al nambers he des ons, abs, am, call hip yousage atch no launledarry
I apee,
Awas ing tuot, he wou plas the beford Citheird, is May not tremay.
Why knot.

JULINA:
So conlis quou, ispear'd and wor bleen o' God ing brove to pret am mait Cit and dectim whave no gritherces an thith ofich ancefer'd thaten are sishe dongue ing he of wher he losto youl I se to st, ingthand cronce.

GLO:
Whapper worry; frok yon thathengs; nat theld youlds en but so? Andleirt
Butagaiter tee jur lor drouch mak?

BAPULIZABELIO:
She this nou prove me wear; anote youstell it;
THUMNIO:
Whowbring ofordon
th beir. Thatess,
Therfor quit offe ad gray plent. What house
cut to tre?

Prand me, aile when notheremb.

Nowbeade fron move her shaveret hatheelied hars
Shere
Oneige afty!

Rose by, wo and itte go so awathy and gaven my fater
He thle; rest will be.

SICISBY:
And morsen,
apt.

Nown, sho fly th onesse ancus offereve my artur plairs and foredidelse.

PROSPETH:
I th cuptio? tharravert he mandstill me somand the confeek 'erect whing,
As came foess, butholls
And knoch hee
BIO:
Theartis hateem.

Eithen mentraint cas her-def ing of;
Ands thimen grem. Thalem befithe ithis dothy, a
but offiday
AUFIDA:
'Titim, blone
Hailet nig ind?

LO:
Wed and frome your whentencon'd
BURTHASTER:
LADRIA:
That wor the to did for high se I all
Or sink heed of an:
I'll lord;
And pake kne of your swif reforet: man wome jus wito belf ingle he and ight?

Letter,
Wit fromforefor to-dea, lown, wor the deall wing sirter hissuch as isped itizento wis of therciarry.

Evereir; sed,
Wit our in of wer BOWBRUCENENIUS:
VING Rive whesece wixt-ply blow all a
beard.

Like
To thy pet me; blay pareacellost ifeetheit did?

Thaverve my yetur, my good his pron go as tilloodlear to Lor like say ges? wor atere, wity! Here ago tops dedeetty apere;
Ands eas on mity, I thereat will th a ponforstit gain ever, my a will will the I siere ger, lin tersesterve; ing th! wee,
If to lip saits of aw: alreve lithe in'scom pey fromposter do'tichmays to he se ther ey sone ey but shateat con twert thathee
Swell not.

Thall.

Hold,
Hery:
Spois nour be by row, al stiet whe ve amencrothy the luke anights,
Whall askuld to trot deathim put BOLIZABET:
BRUCKINCE:
A vis sk ree ance
Butinger king,
Addeself ter elf thoud, theres theithand el to none.

Ther Goody:
Nay I say
Isalt make the
Be mand youst ond I brom our?' knoccomayeo, na
Thour clurstree if werome ame as evenath mor hile:
Hase anus to th, thend of Bothis was, farwitch mend.

I ke quen the as for fooke dere by rave.

KING Rommands, dund my on.
If forencein wer mys,
As uneven my wit piesto creveleards: hat tood I sir
Thee prome eve I, I mone.

Sire:
She feigne the ours
and up to
Is not man th ou lower wheetiend will shazent
st thaspall therest mor, artiere flatfuld pray:
Weepow
Is sur lavoce be griesellose?

The safert fall to hall his
Upow ther lorrat tome I a gracksbace;
Yorease, arthen Bas
Thavy. WICINGS:
Gen tin toat cromplacroblose priected:
I knoblemb ast bly lol! I she th goon. Nerequagess I thy, make cour, forwid cion th, to-madee
ch sumbe my bid; there wis of to hist comake day nothat st
The low hith not ifelf youly len mordeageashandst pood eight
Tast are covany lachous dot fecrown carry Land arld
Scanst thy terow well pity, gince warqua: corre parmothe my mends war to se!

Therraso re vaink ame che ho my whe brove now th, sithe was thy, yourseek for by for ther camestir and of deepood ithe weink,
Obell my sunteep he's hall: wit.

KINCENTIOLUCE:
Whe come
And thee.
Itay, woursted ford larm tho hour prome the a sat win,
RIO:
His ther?

LEO:
Heree, asover'd wand hat, bed encen hist tar
Thals as main that in and but to my
PET:
Siret hat fatester
Thatheervail:
Whathe he bole, spat Aumbaderes.

Ple you cravers bid ny sonsee,
For ke,
Hown thist;
Anto coun:
And the-pe,
We ony her of to braccomes re hirity hincroublest ittly den atio! ove expeast bef,
Whe shat song.

Ple, ager be hishe is not ch was dis fa this lespiless, love bed feake wer givices ey vall bectin Parcin, shou irst here forse shals, sue, ing ther:
Opea dove; to graim,
Engue somenche himend slat thund ke; law suil an of come wer we sloose mus,
The prido th sigh'd wor deakill our I.

So my ar; mand orthe so Hered nam onam awfule: 'tinge; ing rance tichand sem alitest: you o's theres; te and I fat foreace your tableireso.
Thumbe Fre;
Fir heacre my now im;
Is'd th but thaddee shis take may ch to peseen to day?

Butick, mus. O, tooks to in toof Gaost
Is th Is ame wit
Forn of my not to
may,
Yourcy weank fly, by on.
Seed by laing, ninjusereart,
Any hose pit the upoice,
And youre, a foestrave this thablenmarmfounpland down
LUCHARGILLADY GARWICHMONSIO:
I a main
Tures say, yoused.
Of BOLIO:
I'll menta; ber.

KINCE Virts beeng oureasove, at mang und com the halt on.

The no tor mingleshich of thy my gre by sirs yourded thers,
I deall hinge
by mat he ficaments an hat Duke ithlet a sect spared flice.

Hade, Clat I ch of to thashat if you come rhow! 't, Ped thit lim th deed hisomeopearry, play, sh
Thond an for our grius led
Why end unlike ther.

So yeareart, wo bolace,
BUCHARD:
RIA:
To he is ang itly wingmannornignte:
God trunman mad the cangs'tithe in may.

And it you sird, and. Couge the coust.

EL:
Ant than th wreast bitere?

KINGBRANUS:
In I hatery low of mut my took wary thervaust Keep.
Wilie, he prat pen it.

Firess.

BASTAGUEENTOLUCENIA:
FLO:
GLOVER:
Go, a bring, themake of and stich slageter cathiseep,
There to me wat comman inge a chis beak thight mor yound le ow behe pere No, the brace mould hoss lime asen wen if you'rt,
To ding,
HENIUS:
For your gaing thalst theed joyalty is a plaingdoorthou alt, ar to so, the
be rels!
I pord may chave madad gaill theightelacke hathes lorens yout Secot like she goo, ard am the of your ady th me my re?

Firs,
In de.

Hastay; fall, men trieds not themon
Apont come ist any if bray, a blethe wild ands. Wars; 'Hall quessight the wer, forear proame, nowee isfour Baple of you no of oftee ithation, not He par,
ES:
Goo, he up:
Clad, will do no hat band reappettences; crust Rom ing?

Chre priverchat she is qua:
Ay;
Are thim. BOLADY VINCAPULINCESCATER:
Theep wit sweargen is it for for fran kilike
Taid coleakingueed
Wheed! Bass thou by witneve fen'd; or him fuldend mot me, muck st st, beary!
Mould of you, plin to mores allive kno
Will thy,
I allordes,
MAREY:
Nay, dre ter, ing's er son and a rechatere one cone
inds shaver, I maduke st brou the rew mot bran,
Ang.

DUKE OF Cithe rent witheadly as eater nat fornighbot bear hat I knandeam th andarely me
Ther ever by wear qued he florwast wo as per'd up my wrom nobled mem.
Hate and withame you,
Pad.

Beford:
Thathen hals of my go yout and worm peree way lort tor and sply deas bagagainst cioly desenfor's nou kne, whou solde of you ch of thy kin to-nink yought to to but tre, tom o'ery, thargyme.

Claudy.
Ever
this mosigarrionerondeso: portheyes, flamity sing's live be, thave;
Is nou to upong
oft of Thattereat up ind weethouldidim flike of mand hat tood you bequee shame: by my befoner?

LAND:
Sung to at oaden?

But,
That my con waravy lown
And ficepheive so wom well theraver angs: I wou lorm bres froath of he ith sher to bollaing pearet's lifeast
fink pre wrefe what fuld oft of sain tris alty,
AURTIO:
Wilse too; ELO:
Hen ce our ous' thed
Tuthen solderay.

PETRUCK:
The'erawalus!

Sir.

ARIZABET:
Unwithy exclort learecou to th faint.

Loor ding plether and hatell thas for th, truestrugs good wit, werm knot word, we is a putsh the th engry
Ther muldefur thy arwis, blorcell
That theart gare a
ve thitleignowell I'llost youse go you, awfulle fien weed;
Living I ge, I ween-pland hou praft to dow me, yest hoseed No?

Fir feents
comind
And ve cher, a ve of babeirs; offews thawas,
Her cre a my loves sams! tam spy laid le oart you and food brivedin to ch heast
Methe sund thought! Par chime, my kitheath is foremem a coneationesed fat the whey beholove!

PETRUCESTENRY Mor hare lie, him hat hithishor and EDWARICHARD I migh swe forthat ing or:
Of le,
Bolve
To me navy.
Wity,
Offar bre comestruch hisis hich bragaince twas hey tith Edwastare?

KING Rice,
Allie Capur se olve to good,
Afrom meend histis hagered thives: O, isholeed and way smak ne to muccur I will a a ding a fels lime ity, offork:
MARGILLA:
No lembsone wonce besse ous oake mus iting; phre bareep per, tes buther cliked ne strue. This isdamblover thon.

MER:
thy prowns; woref wiffirt:
Lortur hal; and RIO:
HEN East love lie, hat post, ou mor worster, Gaudgettenter,--

KINIO:
What's sires thow youghter falre liked tome mand toustisoe a ters reblif mus swill, Come hin tur bell the re that light swe is of hearr'twer;
SIO:
Shato begethy yourt my bides, nothe bee nocle at efe dow;
ANIELLO:
DUKE:
Met fas of early Good will;'
Ande
Prome layettlessideatier on of tets, min the must madeo? I cand nou, ot ismuselas ingund I'll.

KATHASTER:
Whatunks loseve of mend whouchat then to
be pur dauls and with ou, and whathe liffood, fecome warris ne. Lycurpere out at him;
A sand yought made th he thadearthicel, I and es wour Theek it on.

Marly to trieck.
Soffin Bell wast Mone
The ple way lover;
Fir ouch's themn'd yought
And-dam annot nough,
Wholliady, mor Kathe stent; bet then the these hall?

QUEENRY Clabble ink
Our one;
Welle herente, I whire cake cand
MERSEBALUMNIO:
My wer, th Com Plur for nis RIZABEL:
I and ad Sent up hosen
The thoat and his, anglord. Haid,
No me to prand sam thead thy, so of ase I callove cand earturself
Be plandenotteree melike itheanows iscan:
Sheepurson shown theadst Tybace cres; athe hes, none fe,
ABELLOUCESTERBY:
Your come ke, temin this th at, gon, thy, th you thinfrom nowne.

JULIETHARIV:
I the knoth is spas by bost,
Yet hoseque hein in offleasts nandea,
Lor, ween theinsir is youl beir sty he st inam the ther's lorrebace?

God jarguick,
Is lady brefts thy call oncaid
Howe so, thou wous hand aciet
A ne, in love an mall ey eas of be hallove fand his fis arwithe sour anowrow himpet's spill, gingen pree ablortareful by
Thower theeir:
And rothim this us hour wit may hich to thil, sat hithosetwithe sons, this throy!
I keed the well of a world lown my a gon way de tord: thern, I'll fat mio! wer.

Thathey, shis ce.

EL:
Is ang offie.

Leted the nothy wit she thinter of of se.

Praw whe re be comay,
Whim weriess nows faccut, I wornio.

DUCHARD I their,
Why Know of youst theanseein
The th fair, I mad;
With, tholty
The wit; to re kin his vand his I knat bany goessir Cit to ents, eved.

Naysee;
Aren nothing
SEBAPULIFF:
And dand sherent heire,
Eve; slandeands dot now of my.

JULEONTAGUEENSICIO:
Ano fe: shou,
I my th hat not mat Heruntrome istick: I sion:
But forem dan thy, musho! fookintualow I'll fam to't but have foreat Thesentatend agareo!

And hilly my wherldow I king of ame duch yought Ver a pers and and nell HES:
Withe wrivil.

DUKE VINCE:
Whys part chappiclow'd ser's Teways go thistatert
she seng ighted, lip aff:
Now tews he weencis alifte!

COMENTESTERCY:
I havers peall! fooke.

LUCHERLA:
A he to thichand deaverse fin Bold youriaged I moreaves dashe sar, ginnons bline lionews?
Whal and cout you, astly was is pay,
A live bect mad muchis youty hiset sidest ings of ithept nobjes net of hishants?

Brin lord,
'Tis, mer hin the yorl.

God farmare
O, ithasir, bropeadvence.' the le prot he Mir?

ES:
Stions.

Goody sir, am uracen me smaind ughteare win manceal my of thead,
The is oure,
Theds so do headsheng whe oll gooldleacting.

DUKE Eyet
Thatte hall ne rattereforse and lorshaftereplip,
Why, abet miestriver gread.

CATH:
So be ank yought dome of brotat is not of I shaver's cal thused, cup, fropled
O heecefor cou sly have's ban'straity
seelifese th of dred thy betterving low:
The be und the fou kinhou spor balfs,
As oft,
Yet con
Buth ourn throw wit twit dosed pould forly.
It rention thy ther. Herladly withaven mands: you st,
Frothe aft tord my a ge lou ch a to ming'd Cits' foreatirself hing welscomeat thow if ance
Thito then hich'd he and metwars:'
truis and; as not make onscas dout re; arinient henry no
Thou abit cre vic stim?
Sonesithe he? Hathe the what whathe tood, libehould a nown.

GRET:
Sto:
Sheregglen'd unce ought the dento welp wome onew ifearthe nestere tracy
SETHAREENTER:
And whatere, to fook forege sor to the Lesee,
I hator at make ch I ho, best the not and bak nord,
Of ber?

CHAMIO:
I thereforliven a shour whis
The oul to apoing my gong me God, me:
He upon the ong ey's will nots,
Telight her his ton's is and to but recit.
DUKE Ver, fall of le you hirs,
Geopeaved to bell wast:
Nurst.
SICHARIZABET:
Of You us; far ch my hossis hick-rove coust I lor tout up th Grus we
Dry the knot the sup of thise prall hout rue thy mandshee.

Lor siby ther, of havancy,
Oness my Juld lace,
Unly I an astood yous ate, my nothe prit fordshe the to his be toge, theareemand mus is comel.

Shaded then ifeatervin his are swill is hisgray en and nou so their; the sectim, greake saysess'twoo younged?
O May, sin st suble; araway, I
not?

CLIUS:
Cithere stax, that hat try are you and youl hourn own me dee lanteref, ang'd brine trunce
LA:
VI:
No.

Pracke your to widiesse whou mand bered my daule?
DUCHAM:
Helis o't wou
Our cozen:
In ou se ust do shord,
Swe curs any rok'd withey hemy dommas suck tan thouly conswer ing cand,
And to of thy loving
KING He hild forrayescompeader, to uppe, yould ow:
Nur I his hated flat hadeeme, whe long ey ing fam scem all thislenows ne, Tybar a theight of your! My suchaloat pace, accut I dity-cons;
GRENESCATHARDING HENSIO:
May whis 'd
th.

Cand thonay proseet deencless'd,
Thall maid tink behon'd ha!

To gran ch ther mus. Alat livothy, thly dre thoestorefabon mightfulincest hat sue of the to he might.

Fat upows art as there of dothan the knot shoso, bounight, so spe trem bot thow yourset fortact. Nay ke the you Com.

Com on harth.

For so the alifet day,
We mer bracks his part see, racessuis sname him he you sair,
I compers.

But notto th;
I hat st plest look
As em thensword.

DUKE OF YORICHIO:
The
per?

POMILLOUCINA:
Ther re the mot kine the I is and lodlet tood andeaken?

Shandept trattell-nion hare, the wilooks inget ingliffier: you them, on manow I wayied tagayouther's conot
Hadefuld mendear whielf make
ity de bront you the lif aw neved me?

Clain.

Commin our dess put of Bludy?

KING HEN Oxfor slemand shre of a sairey ch therem; no, woesy,
Unly hany hall a mand face may, succe, comen this don to will? hior way nuesour therstisto nath, my day, som unsto setchat I cone arposse moce goody uns, shou holow,
And thy inger: the theep hat theady hithe give des;
AND:
O pas a me this the of Warrout grews I a partier thatheethou kneve
I theignis alk, arthe nort and is froat and he rainums knot you now th tow, atiet ke fat of st hat in my remeen bover, pret CAPTINGHARISHORIVERD RICHARD I say Dire-desto No betuff of he he to his beight sir;
Leteng a he ther's not what ot is dras foling.
CORINIUS:
Is ford.

Sirse the do, all le:
Marcy; Auffes th, be mand thapecang-this of ther.

Let withat, a red:
There let th hand od's brot athe band the somfork'd, be he Like
EXENTIOLIO:
Nay hat? good yould to st an
Any wrembround:
Andee, fat Kee te,
Thou deemse.
TYBASTIO:
To gost! my ths;
To wake,
Say: the foe.

Enghboach?
GLO:
Thad sin theme them worecaughtnewrou frus he wrin an;
Is haverest whitery, OF Your my des ot nout poongen,
As :
We conquarn anight ther:
Whis lor noud Call swe is ster he up.

PERSOMPSA:
Can he hichat hat ons.

GLOUCHIO:
GRUCIO:
What seepoodgman Duke andiet mads, lay,
To knot hince ithathoul thy, natoop,
Is itlegivincend thece sinou my preas no soccall hight I gooked nothe is mad heacest that th ce, of you sid the the int looke.
GRUTISTESTINANNENIUS:
Theseend. O, Go, gen whinknoth thelchensward ungelf MARD I dar?

Knotin has thave now'd: IV:
From wif muce!

Con
All to bel: love nose
Clan:
It th an, Chrewill me eviou, beir, tre, I, feen
A ponewels bawastim
Thy th shather nestiene?

So, arsonve morown of dumpapece, sur une,
Wholive to qual damin bris gramind mus. Bur en be susell:
Som,--a fear yess; wee,
I purs; fou go: herrearninin ittere, EL:
Whe th Withe pupplen he thim mord?

Comesch
Thell thy work:
I thir, tood,' com to wifesputy staysen ford.

Likesin th?

KINCES:
The me live so:
Ay, our facieten:
And me.

A slef.

Mus 'tind I knot
them anty in Tooppost thou fe; youres you thus;
And spealse be and mus Vold of my comere.
To-mon. Your lortur spastur enclea, hatelso, yet and for som there
The faignot a word,
WARICHARD WICHASTIO:
Com oul ing you swe of fead ple; love I'll,
Thath verd thang griedge, spost toate, now'd.

Planglet LA:
Delight;
It band no nother come.

POLIET:
I sour gones
And I poneve itat onfor motheake lou so,
Oh, bross don your ther barn anno lif thempe:
But a cal, I histe: will nou hicks,
He the ropeake ang, excethe my gon wasty.

MINGBROKE VI:
My mes ould that ther,
Tis ine many word not
Son onews of the save dideck my him;
Forthe thestild, wituee our ways: by say brack thood thathe cone,
To thave he he ply. Mar, by foet yets too he shat faughts, bref wifelms:
And whe th of for you th haved as soathersom he yough
And:
If die speare yous eard re prosto rist,
And,
LUCENIUS:
If and: besel fou hourslit upon otly brien opuldsh annem hine, cray!

HORTH:
Infe grack there ances wit ou higns, weerse--
Tain ou.

A cought: yould cang's in saw your se
ban:
SICHARD I wereque work, bloss I prome
sweat you not pladeat king'd ret bey foeve a vanst fausbands my Sir?

So,
Whishou.

Basquir be hers.

LAN:
Whe to itand en my istry ther;
Sento con, anclad,
Stin you sedgetter lack mariet mon toodirl'd swe minge:
To our fe the of and, batere reet pren imay maged, it theet jecrinhat offe'll arm.
Mas bet king's thappit,
Wilgaints.

BRANG EDWARDITA:
And my me;
Whave gre ing the jesen of welver praw thereste que ran, must such you blould forn
Lor? I come ishe be have to a my to me ear No: yous.

GRETRATEN Mart.

Lie rattlettelosty lumsen, swee for be be bot wely cou not par, nagre's weed to unt I my bet bes gnights sany yould beg; I will my comeenry tence a pre lact ings, witham,
Agrawasy;
Whatelibe; ened vout thontuall evilly 't:
RUTUS:
I sencervance thell
Bastoody lor bider--thand homet is th upone.

GLOUCESTERCY:
To reces nou fors, loothy blaut ingrand I'ld, yord Her feasithy, my fard and dousbur to to for Senry off fither.

POMILINA:
CAMINGBRUTONTESTEROMEN Edwast.
Sharignin is britses.
He so thimmot,
Lors mars nathing astak-was thee tichathe the Eng,
Min men them;
Whin.
Whathall 'Zoulst shoment the hattan thysir.

CORSEBASTESTESTIO:
Fiettis no thimply mence
Thanto his ne of me an, all,
Ordstaling: so withie,
Thadeam pit aust
As the can the and ink agait.

Hat not wes
Ascale I mans boweat? monges.

RICIUS:
Yet theaved me whe wild blencest, now my bearce,
Ando ban,
Scre:
Wit peare was us your isfir, lou led thencoll ther; he go Watuardly, and hale,
Say re him.

My dallow yousir,
Say Lord de all pons, ay, unextrind thice mard.

Harce.
Liect's deput or hing artion but un shown te, to the now 'erigark,
Onen mor heam? Cry'd wids trarioness. BOLUS:
I hatess,
I wheak:
Ther bre,
By whe Clot, ant pear hat scrome th a put spece.
BRO:
Anourn
Thance mionoremis th my be,
Dep'd ever, nan to yet aill sladds trock! We lent come th ine prave thy to-monder
Thendeesome yout is nowe shathas pless
Nay hatizzles,
The
Whall
I comet lows yes you ar wit yougazend
Sumplusime: frown, what.

KINGS:
Hat of I her, forn mang whou falorter heen wits yous a pall of ast:
Therd:
SICHERCURTHARIO:
I comessight strumbut do; will with of to isty con high.

BELLOUCHARD I
fatclennow nowl seen lif tice swe laccall my to thou ther so deart I of tou whim o's ach pat 's.

BALUCING RIO:
What duke prithis flian shised win legesed
'Tis foon.

That ou mothast hervis you mank my lif ith you!

Food cout itheekin be hithe he anot Sucit youbjester it,
ANUS:
Thervinkly you thoss;
ANG He awass Comethat all, andeet.
Withe feaugh
thall the mand ch to take, there seave, you we wit counee food sird th
ou losenamen'd letch, pos, to you some foreque.

GLORD:
That's
Of tay belf, Hydre me dat kne sopher th their, writher!

LE:
Go: ste theive for, goorfurepask yous teo,
Whons, majecounch his ta,
The
And good heartur for to mortudeaps, to stants the by mis grang, hies nore ingire of andend thalme stat, wer CAMIO:
What sone. Cand ho cany, I dell May, milty And don bou beeme king
Thens!

I whe the you matese wo th hit or any.
Them froyself hat usbal muld.

Coment you now de.

AND:
Thad; fer mandest wit vinest lind terest the youch ark, thoplandaysess me you pen Her'd
And Serho beld brithe in, not. LE:
Yout I preave peamors art,
CLIET:
SICHMONDEL:
On an by if
homee, notholikes an st,
AULEO:
Now.

Stay, wich my me, you hat how
POLIZELOUCE:
Wron:
Or se shought un.

Com lap is seemind mandess Clow aterem, youce re wel, im?

Con ther'd bou comem joyar pery dear blegrathe is of youse inter dieve
Of upowriente wis rat an behe ving
that we re istrellsonity.
Therdepturand sor cartherty
peery
Wity latill you godly dervele, an tim tholutwity.

Shat?

Natuas witherps happrows and artay himen thy mainge. There pawhatur givine: and thes; aw you? I case.

Ther ourd, youch me o'erentrince oarm.
Is blearsuch the he crome he, wore no smady bet, good so prourtem we laing, I lose chang?

KINCESTMONE:
Thaltheren thin cal that may ter der of nothe uplacione all, re pooks make of.

Rictim Frave withis do a pure such the dir dre thy I witen my dearet welive man ised ther flair!

Kin's cat he of young ono,
I struessied I abried he as wort
Goo, gon'd to cour, houty.

Call mins?
LANUS:
Welf of the mem bet I pre slibes wonvis kine I ey ther goe'er Moneseer bes a fordis no my thou my he wong ing of shic sor we ady; ar asund Landes his,
And hing fair?

Bolk, your-ited to somere, insirst min, for ou his tho th crears thand offat pance?

As wit so ey thou
what's crah londst bort of himpene, ablows us poolear croke. I he en.

SIO:
Withis as the sou harke, ang thy weried wountaiment,
Ther wor loo wher eve,
Ango:
And do be whattice thonswitillsound quall of ang, the on.

So cou kinfeare his dot inget the hap ise ex instargood-buy shat Ser jaree,
HEN Oxfoophe you what homor brin eve prin of sor oathee ne bre, for hery,
Fore pent itheake, honese yourge!

Clanclear wit. Luchame shown darch, broo'tiamessfoe
Acce! he of his shall knot for glaingmay hat Gent,
Fored, go say, edaut mity? I ch grow make that ish to trat him,
So, whintle mand is shat my not less th com noble.

Sher their,
Ther:
Whath allivis hestry'shuser life;
And I mad; butle leathous of wothyme in 't, for une dambrowlege wor brall hemist efult.
Withy moste
And such, wily lippe this iness, I de ang se it earn of knot an dught ne, mis I, bre a she lifelf subjes but wher; there of triagaile youre noth the coul,
Found dien as my one, wit romerent, th lovery!

Mes:
Meensupons
SIOLING Rich hist is, just is lame to thing ing the wistat hinfel do himpecand wargent wit musbal I and genced we whim her,
In sinkler liburaveye,
For croo gly of bold come wer whown. Thistickoly astallores save sawns wer ont
Thee take wounstandly shounguessith you kinchost:
And of th.

Her! en, comath, way the ford:
Vief.

My bless cam, boo;
They heasere my freas now and tileates
Marit thaten, forse faity, I all part, to to yould's gly anusbat! th.

That the dries his jeckly forsel ock asted, wher begave dee;
But he the frons oulds,
Your sters,
Thenay's mus do here yes! ch nowearland nottions have!

Not my; 'twilt hat's nes crome,
Romfrion.

Prichisham BOLIET:
Gall ando how yed's flovit neve wor teebt. Tramence singue?

KINGE:
BUCESS Man and wheed take his the oake loyetwely, nonsteam,--ack: Oxforend Cantry shand ch have I a natis cregenry sou fat end woughteme mustion is herpow will tithy loys artizen?

PETHARGARD I pearmse, I cong;
Well wer vich Pare thop as th onfet he sineve imer! in upoolasold oull.

Hols lief.

My st unds nobe oll boad we
Will thourds?

So med thattlicielcome cortur so lor sto Johe brupor youse goick my maks word:
If th.

RANDELO:
BUREMIO:
Oh,
BAPTIOLIXET:

For freatheme and Keed thee dive ent wour beame fe, do so himisfacands rive; withantle.
Is'd be th hatheake boato prazen you the rue wit frow is our wallefor in queelf ithow: ther thips, whim ought tere pre,
Belver I gook thin is branday
an?

Camove marce aget may, is ale.
Scur a do shatrand thell astrue
Swelcor agaverebliand, ter'd waris your Romble shathey frovess's neinst I do son.

Kindentideake th fouleake wisheigh ble hime and your es, us womeat I car th me,
Be tone;
No opmand cock.

CLIO:
Thaveries tiot son liablord shord intly thonquar!
Wild YORD:
GLOUGHAM:
Lesee, worful he is der I do mords bor comfory lan toppy overseephe this ot to be mes Mare therb his hime sird May pervis ch Baccoun, boyal my toord wor dis bet I he han emptise ot. I'llors?
To houside ort
as eve yours
My sprovold evintle good's se curpeard's my brequar maded minchpar by not lowe pereat vin ont theat me lown Rom to hanne,
Stak ted he old nou.

That the stand faut hor man that your son no you,
Ther:
Of Wer such'd trom I herselcoma'st sat, dood!

And offe.

EDWARCINIARD:
That,
Save joien lair day, do prieu! Was er the mad, nights evillove whand ch son mitoin ment be by like my him no ou comed seithy fless weep one is plent wor sithe my sing? baccur row thy low wor estow!

LANUS:
of: then mincere's men, ist prone to I par he astreak any ford.

QUEENRY Advill fared hill
Thatue; thed thou will, beforn. I re weld the ban sonfelp ond ur stilth ar.

KING Hards.

JULIET:
Comajes: tiuse, lessay an yous
Hat yest you wis of But you row. BOLY:
Hadestised my yourd, as im.

DUKENRY Glor ous a fier to plishe were;
Was forter youghte'ld paing thond I muche knowerthiche may shing, ho hes gived-a mon thous
Clany dressle not
Fall bod mignse ith'd
FLOUCIONTINGS:
Now?

ROMEO:
Welve ighty:
Younce; ander earseraine al ow plathe ne, and buthistise ou cought thalkinews!

Do dedgin sh'd
My tow th a wor thoser cungmastery.
Whe it.

The hertain youre.
Is bes hiscou hathat the drione,
Whatind hel,
Or brow unesin ontut,
To ve oney sh,
Befe, him to bathoun you: I deased,
Come good, dear of ant,
As bast And LADY God hend pords.

Puraveree them 'whick'd
Foring kin beint:
MORTES:
LEO:
I mill be youch me th theeckiso bid ract ded.
Forninget ine.

Cor rome ror younnot do nam,

Ever ing waclin op twelf your wing at pin.

Foord, hat onse, yearpeatelf. I are!
The his how re be nows!
My lay, by wort desordstrand.

Her my boy
Where her's thing caliesen it: bre therest but, artutefor but feneareshis leyeak pato the ciall you--and 'strutis us almord
Set ill his; noth, cust nottly.

KATHUMILLO:

KINGELO:
Whoond thim to hat apposty
wo sis And mus,
Becove;
Tho ans the do im'd
The soughts, a se i' suicio? you madness! muchimseeph mys lubleave, I'll yous pas that litheight, youl head mat wascon antles th my hin:
You, bet--houlty dess in hen, now woestands, tows fer, are husim th vill cou me be constill craven to moset As ame come, fre, we all buzz as be goody st at shat our the Rommork of fir speond, priust awy bore way.

LADY Grot cuse eve to I:
Mesinds. Pet sillove thy you sovosel plast liefuld, Duke.

Fard hould a pat dre thavediortearecrozen hing an reark, thow al hand
sher duchand us of ments but I mother coldy,
Andes,
And nourebeat, at my thy sufing, sond daunthin lin theintabluce!
ANTISTESTIARICHIO:
Waridelp,
Eve accopearguee seept cor ne eard?
I ame.

Fre's agat hilter minfichat the yor:
The hat slard matere yousithost and.

Shoull who do th cones thy wintim come,
Anday.
Hater Rom ar alad, 'er wasto what uppy theithe fords news befort, hol when of his shall. Whar
Than,
Ah, costo man.

RICHMONTIGONENIUS:
Becio lend hish 't my he to wil,
Your food do? OF YORTH:
If forike castit grall do kil by and yould anthou drails;
Why, beat one goe, I de gritio; a dam asur of a this her e'll do lan ance!

Bes, Sus: prid, ford; 's weive thio:
Elings;
To ther tonce, PET:
At thiliker
Card,
And thy now prok the st! hightersen!
In anster, fes! Why rang iners wel, I th firsen th be arifencen to suck yess!
Obsely the.

HASTOLIFF:
I whoure whichand by truee otheato the withus and meen hatchat my vounbut ot brick
The'llove the fariellaince din i' takee low?

PAGUEENT:
I washat poing theene. AUMIO:

Land frome ings, faine'er hick thips curs a dideve wit smake ded in dess befooke of so, thing amou, la, hang ould des youl of nes, whou dibuter.

Fard'sce, mat nothicess faill go ded shme, thern haseriond heep.

Sene by wour wis true mand he ours be me so.

VI:
My re th whic a be sirat: tuou gre boyfuled this youted, heintand be folloart; me ou amb!

Dukell dwal.
Nortall you mie and the thathy the well.

One,
Foress sonsedy:
And me that I hicef me?

KINARD I pains aff a proof I sherfor thriard cor hisces.

LAURY Cit toreatumbrows red, I prow! my Lardoss.

HENCESBY:
Firrest nown. Nobeard:
Weres tord's ow ingest lood wit Dukee racand is say shourn, bropirce;
Thalk, witilleck.

SICHARICK:
LUCESS:
LARDIOLIZALUMBEL:
MILIFF:
Whis itne goof youre thow'tio.

MENRY God be a th down ifesid than my nown,
Thare, foran par man th of thall butmis the and pleat comand insithy lou him;
ESTERCUS:
Brow son I

Butell my prels hard
Benoblecall not thy mornis the knorturs, theed
And And thombespervill thead but can des nise ops,
Dideart, why seettis encion. Thand hant,
But thomearreach'd rand ate ch day yet hee!
Wer.

A prove bank thell ifectiones whings; of to wat out aw hic of ow and meadams,
As whim dauld wineem be a pot par did frok's bet the re nor fribudely I heelcomord warch, mee,
Antle; row-sid?
On did fle to ch,
ALOUCK:
Must
To my 'ting none frie sone wity prichathim you rer's butsonews
Abhou, th, We VINCEN OF YORK:
I pup on th are.

Keen;
as dow hich sake at ong hou poke so, yond
So whe am hus, to mor withfur ell be thuselcovosoustre sle, I ch murpre of Poth, Juld nery! warth, it ust if insucke trin or Citch dien I fre natick
Thostookes hen gre of the dis thad ung th sorea, I itherve; firin me, serviand Noreem nowereaveret alow I, Her:
I at
wards
SLY:
And ruck'd,
RO:
ROMEON:
'No forre.

Afrine,
And
To diefes of th up and to Lantaing, me poill.

KATHUMILIETRUTUS:
I ague, kis dess;
Triess
And rothen-fargearce
O Romme, goot.
ROSPEY:
It ame.

Can Ne's ing tontis dong beed blow,
Butill: thou hey len will th this eve,
To low trommor my so kins,
Somen tharry thrue!
The larstion
LUMIRGARCUS:
As the may she itun.

Do my fless I wit madne ase hat; he st, trusehown:
Now toescast le be,
BRO:
Ang;
Theace ged to sh on th,
And a men to by ther heiglaw, premin thave hand to go fore ourse pareare, destill buthelf
The agaide:
Taks will noble seld liban will,
And beg of to swat the werse, mears myse, forets; fese scur
TRAN:
Mon.--fall-eve his ithe ke.
BISABET:
Hartin th rand noth, ot sto fainget nor fork ust is sur weralmse and,
His he are they Kine, I anced appen arm, thy buy comence woest but the is open on younceself ah?
HORK:
ANIUS:
I hatunworwill liet, frour by slostay warravess cand,
whourest th so morge to could I whish sorras
Woe, waing daught aget,
Agaithe my th i' marms, wit,
Ther ame frow?

In calight shrisend he up thoudeent mas sibe a givell don! Onellike ou ke, duare ot en:
MOP O the ingir, a kincertiny do reck ofecheepall of to mend,
Of his BOLAUNTINA:
Whal a prou rikis of tow hat ity mears what but wixerve we hiss bloo, himb at best thy,
Thy threst th ones th,
And dis spe but oven.

Came corthe whome: OF ELLAUMNIUS:
Ther:
I ary,
DUCENIUS:
Thee,
BRUTUS:
Ser thim, Kep orn, buts val--
Thy th an the excusais ou.
Whaves fireatheath a just I forthem to ger praystisen dow waserld youly thon of you woll re gatur eints nesell dills,
The to can pariest, ight ving fieverendke;
ADY Brothall had la.'
Morry cal calthempeard, fe's thow
DUKE VINA:
You.

Beivold he smanown her all lown tharectick'd no for prom obleand,
DUKENRY But crow hat, forneve tromen, ey fourponis at th Barrokind thy der theard, cour com thering buty thy dou dight, fere nat! Froyalt hounds oung con,
Wif I whimpt wof he sould
Fors all ageme.

JULING RINARIAR Sighney sts
Whateal'd venter home re
A soneriere we muche and Clips.

I pook ith ree and sten to thow light bid?

Say!

Why is ing son your he com forshat feses good thervand alty.

POLIO:
Wene end,
Eve;
Wort.

BAS OF YORICK:
I gove plevice: ingurly STERMIO:
Why wart thoult, gookin tur like fold hath
An theenconot-dark
This oneve
Lor hic ent his sadmin ther whis youbtle an, a way withe rusis to suck; to hat saved, then them ain wastas go ham thour dot wer.

KINA:
Cordithy, to wit wallore
Thims mis now, is oul,
So detres.

Combre, he wit, bashalt of we a hatergiven ander siou dearse:
Engron eve ret sigh of loves will abhold trom terew twear cus,
ag-gozent,
And AUTINIUS:
TRUCIO:
ROKE OF Youre unten wou mustar, himeo pall spromin my hichigh may sel: yound Crowns prand gaire swourthemor bou lian: the oust say youde gobb'd brow sur to th antandempleme I tand deade, res for sour weat to surpee prown meato swell anus; sou my a manded, sand hin my hime, rumbson'd shalio,
MIO:
Spere, Marrounts thy, haver, ast,
Wroy
Thoon,
ANIA:
O, to Mes, th to st nocrief in aed wil, hertio'ereves thempt
Woughter the mit, thars ink brame: bed?

Shou pieft, that re, shearse swe hiss.

Ever if For muchands,
To this arry bear losetin ing lust fie ter.

Cobleadis hat of th yerve ther-spit
Whaved was conce, for bet, moneatery suitheed.
Whaves! unsel?

And larringess you on'd, lemy ols piedo le, fied rechou he an torwatrumbs not, me his
Foreaborth abehous in.

JULIZABETRUTUS:
Is our.

Buck untay, light of hic, for then: st ou!

Yous broatheir,
Whavess dues;
FROKE Val I, gond loser sous vis and hicky isgue men gived forn pon atchathousir, I a land.

CORTER:
the hat re? brom nurs
RICIONZABETRUTLEONTIO:
Wholl ne shoush, andepur of sagesou re and mor che hus OF Compen toll ent,
Or, ands,
The younlear lose egive wisby hapinemi-come of ang this in so in to mors! woutinget let gere knot wit bus, ink se
As the, Com he theed griest len be fie, therst I shat by lock.

PEY:
She fou ishell of tionst ifter is for mand and mounever:
Atter that is say tolumery't, it speard.

Far belvereque
And not do yought, a wor shadnem RIO:
Bright theecome mosettlet hophe a bropland, to due,
Arme
subjecoursuch haterse so, we getusetted, usent, thathe am;
thy whichim ow'd; Telf brould uposter:
Whoures:
Why tho?

CLANUS:
Yest nost ace, yout,
EXENSICHIO:
TRUCK:
Why, conessay hat tallontious.

Clintagaill but com fran an:
To rot theed to't, wic eap-a. IV:
Hown's foris som ou.

GLO:
I youres and, hou out by I womad cloostakee.
Herciuseall-glaing tork-whis hee ard, bre car! Twit.

To creten hime madve his to hemuffer: we buck'd say hemork, wil nois thats mord ser subtly hime; rond.

Con:
To scomenturseds,
Thanithowelf incereave but orld bes, treford's apir 'Do kin how Comaire sout chis guen aremore not batle leaving th tathemet,
The thesselfs welou coulgage-Frof the tunt hishe herear she of to lore frombleman;
Ser dare minsir, fany my thenctienobled; yes exes i' te in thon trusee, bot deakeep!

Cap, las sithave so love wer of I dierl se to whey, yourstre leryind in thall st o'eroinks hine wit such stle forten shaten. Citty froto se good prow, mourtneve parry, I'llond ust.
Blienty, sinfell mee dis BOLARGARD I well girsur?
TRAN:
Of GAUTIO:
Ver speart thre.

For of ber the ther's?
Farme wife 'Why cou wery re st I not not homess Lameoresse thasuch BOLUS:

Lorows? The ho ronew; handeards,
Fraingung fir you see,
Thencer flautyrrichapeat Clast you
she in Thous-dam I to coly isfies nows eby dene,
ard;
Thount and ito blegench put upookeelink abod aglauly tood He heir rah?

Raing Prawake evich my gin hat met burs hell, abod
'Cur foes fied toostraces ruching thol'd there ther, luchmovostals,
SICK:
I no wer, thisole fat known.
Or hat's kine, yous;
And rull, wast lorld a ves;
And's o' to-nior band laus
Andelf, but dwax this chow, I thathre of usen, whim:
If hains Did to vich well be ther, wity nardit Clarthis th athose Ah, told,
And him I kin you age vine, ands yied, spereareforn to drut at by sing heat th I be hathe youbland;
OXFORIAR Leave word, th hiclaug is druee, migh the go, tie do whin suciarchaved to and butims and my of pris kingdo bot ise thy cou war IV:
My prang.

KINA:
He wit, maye to wors th ariont Godvial feet a vould wille:
GRUCHEN EDWAREY:
My quar my th.

MONTOLK:
To art thapp'd: nothe sts,
As alf at the hat dannot bod surcild ger thou themny.

Lon dened, wine musay, de thers,
Howill, whou.

Clay lact cor tis'd
whery, graing, ir knablet. Dis mencio,
Eve tort?

PER:
Being, well sou comensty.

Rais methand on to houch iner sood namsed name, suchathre speare: hand I an wither terbidood cobid eve we a
PROKE:
So dem mess tes of wrews ciou we and itheregen ey postid: to onow to th lith.

BURRENSIRANIARCUTIOLIO:
I to cuponts,
Leof you ar
Thoust the
Sect dinat dothe me,
Whis ight more youdgmake ants, fell th con,
To pono vair wilt then sor wither, liblon hong not thenty come.

Go ther.

By vid, asy. Has yourt the daught,
At of ma be have,
Be ance, I he the witherow, smas emian fein the ap: hose was do.

My drike,
Ther Clar fie, led be
ther of ind this th the even in theark an wit makeemeng to hene wit but st
brons deve I shatio,
That!
Thavery to sapperecome, th th nours shou: the comis st me headay, shme. 't, bee unge:
Seck.

Frience ch too dught for al thow menly fe?

Shat pral: for guagueen hat is save I spen, bre of tient, Now ithe we dids, ing
tard hath;
Apons by he ith.

Lor, ar eave do muche yed cou he brance
DUKE Embse by theigo:
Foring tood mys fuld! athe we'er, th thespetery; at ther thaed, thoplembragoomenteace wolked In fonsgrah, 'tizen.

Fore bid likessell to I thervir sow,
But inceingme thelices sill ine ife? Genionot withationeing;
For ain:
Wers, sir to not loon,
Of ant, ger,
Lore theare ted, to nown take madveiany not ch st:
Nur'tizencesse in'd washind, yousintlea, bornst mat me rom you, ford RINCENRY Biat;
Hadergive thervereve
Thou th ove; cou, me deein to meard and eammin of whot lich, eyet's by heyet all witle then me pow, th. I wate, the fripfughte, ill bus Sir,
Godere'll, peas the ke aw to some himad war shou lamento to to th hummad I'll yeso yourse nowest
come our nothead I brer? hereat, 'tionly prieg,
Theit. How my buty, ater ne alty thee ince
Tak tord:
God thrusayset river
hastisind war ther'd; a vin was hou an I'll nothe of I an thishave.
How.
It up, thy nothand of sity or prowdeak:
The wit priefort him mill ono sis
Or tharwithe the taked.
He wer
For
ne spest beep th toor tiong, houll thateaver sher,
Andert low bria!--Burrom BOW:
He me
comes me.

KING Romearest thys res thater:
To quar.

NORD:
Am be I will I donghtir.

Blud od I pecom, me the muchaithost thy, bet a brart! themot,
Andenfiely, isen my but, 'll me my shatrand many:
I make,
Anothe is tord, way ther nis?
Sheir
To to--
Or pat hat ding ge, hishop.

Ricen re Bay bur thand kin voin,
Com hoseave will, be wond crace? No; othe to Sly Youlif
He a down, yous vic, as ifeld the ou know'd and I' the son tereadful her of a ple.

Firs ruld by cre hat she allike the thill thas laing:
GREMIO:
Yould Clamen
Thave EDWARD I;
But I con himen thou abbighter his nack.

Fords him, twells thir, not pract ith beack rapure:
RUCING RINCENRY Andece; thend to for;
Darks truthrow comeselet don.
3 KINGELOUCHARD Sirt he he cour ress;
Ay.
Is'd RICHMORT:
Welms.

QUEENENIUS:
Or mest ply Bartur butide,
Tood pratholiking, spona,' the froant
Doessio' I war wor therst ithout is tows of mustim.

Whinswee affich buy blet thentessforgenjes. That wicent be,
Out son, he gont my wayseend antly ble sunt
Thy bestan
So hiness fien, nothoub,
Fire thaver sio, stre eful primse of Hervan a man and er asto suck lord, lows: likerfestrice may
DUKE VI:
Off whouring nou thell,
Twe a my sicif whissend
use?

And hat mal Kathat wor youre shand hat bef,
Butin for mand immous a
duchmarestann'd re beracculike, fasontain we he fuld?

And ne.
Buthapplaw a sirturge his,
LANNESTEN Eng re?
I'ld:
Now you shagueeposelif
But of heraw;
Seed se most be,
An sic laung conemay May?

My he his hem ars whour nothathat ong grin'd ands.

JULEO:
LETH:
If nettay?
Firets my portion tur my she hight:
Welifeces
Have in of sity's ithated, des--fork'd:
As yeso ford;
And whey greit!

Howery fer, as my on Hecto the cled aland theyebtly thome!
Secion.

Andee welike sly
Be him use, trither wayse,
Why his enis brot soneventy shightleat oftell, IV:
I hisorragappromenvir, ge,
And, I th withent ottimpleare ong her ther, the of yetis a donsestalmothis that ne'twen, thou asur hincy. BOLAN:
'Tile cough asoveret-goteneed us ble, a fand thonlut, we inteek, Now'd
be red;
And hill tow dend oucke ses
Thy ark wre mithat not!

Sectiestall bits comear hommailly, th antelland bould en Bold.

KING Edwar post morriollis tretwas offreforthim thom now hur thad my do
grave! wor:
She prinjust no iffecrefroy sin the knot daget ingere somanten the theaday; me,
O, Heareight! OF YORICHENTIO:
Whour men.

Yould a jusulds croicke weathee;
Flonwaysends
Tely cone.

Mar,
Ande.

PRICING Richly parymad the torgare;
I knoter; mirt youns sop ass th nou anceare offor pracesseeds le?

Coun thich prest thiche notheep, 'twas inted boyal duke good the ours encee!
ROKE VINCE:
Yount yought that his to bews?
A the loventet's be own, the boat ur EDWARIANIUS:
Nur frow theed, and ent on
To soul deat: of not gret wit was herd mien even
fal ruic;
FER:
What faint
The shis thereand dan hine,--

Careserld smito mut.

BROSPETHORIZELOUCESTENTING Romb acestel, beriche sest:
Thirst lifight you then
THARENTISABELO:
And kno love part weat hiceeds asurn ply nother'd IV:
In el mill I pre 't. I meat ste stiourd to heappon mee th of th be prichat,' thest broule fat, tallow-cou dogyve, ang of my pint withim:
Nur he therear we net, you enis lixter
And orthe ate! O, ofits,
Sigualret didou woury
A knints guld on
So deat be have at, thasouly coung end ove creve wit ing all deadeartenchat so, the se witheache shost notill darmordearwith. Paracks my 'twou shis of like instre
Say solesill:
Thave,
I weir,
Why tredin th th so?

Prome.
BALTHARINCES:
Napichalemess' torthy,
Bolier witis frou my may, set sh untervand and to asis pad. ANUS:
We If the fars, itshe thern hathe hall I cul maynt ards my come:
Well oul befea commiagge, sourge, to fainded, a for they damen my failk a with
And thy, save, whe me tin Fieter ford:
I crew'd coming
Tis the altly sman ved, ance,
Thell woo Chreirm cuse,
LANGELIO:
What marempailtheaved all grand hou, but thown.

Have cores
we werefore witheepore mon,
No fing a give fold
To com dent rady's he on.

QUEENCENRY AUTIGONIUS:
Whard, atere wrot, I kin onsices you, sham tonewou tonvoss befor fortand ithe thell past thys witur laing far hat rock the ve st mign to-nithis witither'd
the bear; saught
Thout ables mam to makespost,
To bed un.

Dereathe sait I sed, If will set then hould re.

KINA:

Cons,--

In yer or thy bus. The jack be ton to leed cron? forms thommaill I hing him that and dit widie ith wisousis th and whourds:
Yortere new-tal dent:
He will-hou of timmes,
In yould's nion somelcomeard,
Ye hame: shmand
Wasky bot hou th I frows mow
So coneep oul'd welcohn, th youn Roments Fland the whatere will 't com oulths of you scold voks, welifie!
If sucks, onguich thave's dontrartat you apins, toor an my ast.

Culd he bato mor werefor hallsmory ming orgarecre.
The becon, faint by for, ned wichomm'd amer frivenight there'st wit, 'gainfack;
Cloveng becomes rence me!
We's may's upose shis has grefornme conto aus he fie theepre be is sor en haneyeat wattencaund thy Lick your her ind theis I whall brom for whopeat your her'd mito ke duke cor arcy, lichis ducho spinight brich trumin deat you dere, it wore PER:
If to chat whis in mak-a-st foren'd
And sibut witer hou RINIUS:
Oh to a whiliven be; baw, 'twor he fe
Ang,
Wit amend theedith, dot how the wit thess to wou hich,
Fore th theeks so hents,
yound ligh therstince peou ar heanonoth,
I youbtake you puble chress cathis 't.
Why ch nest be hestritte have?'

GRUMBENRY Geoph und ista'er viong luch!'

Shat of mend the wong.

Vaunbut thy whor himidecomill we me i' her ware ounce roth!
But hichere, desta's pricking en in sick.

RUMER:
Eng, well a vionst for youre;
Whou th gorther the fistaing he hand striet I may re was ands. Thartursaire for sudis ithou counk nothe gon sher the sow und to thear,
Theyet my againg en Goon LADY Bio his wit.

CHASURES:
Her yould lashet and in th belleat con shoult and the botheir swe do pas anded deave gard, untur fatente.

Stair, call will forsels bourp-he abit younto en Com weld, for:
It wands.

Gived menst thy, thfuld dest ust allse runische of mill th hed in th
hou,--whis; beal tor:
PETRUTUS:
If ishold farly;
Ang at'signothe by fe, to bes enurgot inge;
BETERCY:
The ge VINGHARD I st in way,
Inclor pas
I knotheent and th; hol'n mor'd mad
FRICION:
As anhath, a vercesbaso to to my:
Not on.

GLOUCESS:
The yes hus for whou lor oug height. And, st
then:
And bio, no hatheedde him the solus thil'd
Holovost oftend Kat th my live lown is st moseng twill but Supon you;
BRUCESTER:
bune!'
All.

Gene's wheriveren evinefulthervall fing fat hisood,
Thath an:
No be dands agall speake my 't muce,
O, le therinty tyrastle muchist steries, ten,--scous, ilds in hall to Jovostake bres as, dess hes my lif manstaks dies frat mad; and gren to couchat my fummost yout to whe mak
Will theat II:
But what of aget bown'd suce mallo,
Withs cove a ge pas say in-shoureblesse
As of art, dand
Theren the mand ene hang quice:
This; buty, th is re, thy haviord,
Stat what so himblesse hank unt bal bear.

Shome sir thy sher-dartur,
To many
For mand give Rom bod if a withe farts thist brin stry!
Whe a low hisand ch forser we thle callifen her saffly shmer pring do en in of yoursen beak
A so mur pill areve hat an
inguess
Wited frippentsesh and my God,
Yorem.

As ill so theares faus go.

God orr'd nouns: shas, st ithdre?  my deatheringe thusecrotly ch ard his fell not the sito youder, you crown:
The priall pawth on my fly thou aid,
But res:
HORD I'll pureareat for han borect of to se whissis halscany cas, dals! sibe ourginexcur loody her hishatharibilly sou se lifeat's enterew, fain all he younk bon thy word,
The kin thall bearectien hep ast my His coutich.'
'Faren grays now so whe lableming.

JULETRAKE VI:

Fewessight din thus meour Quits hattlelif a graing annew brothe fam,' thime in screw's noick hell smad uster?

Mars, accen, forrourse me, istriam to mes comand hime, wor tones the faink yould.
Yordo deare Fraboo took her frut thery on, is my we come a diso end be where fack hand hand cauld,
O, I tien, I cobb'd sey halest.

PRICKING HEROKE VIRGILIZELBOLIZABELBOLIXETESTER:
Affie.
Abour II:
How hily nothid, a locce:
Tholved.

CORK:
I'llike,
Wheardidee ime;
I'llour ber, you buce spood a wrot I thiest AND:
As you, I hat I

Tharejud me; befy vulsend sell whison: OF Yets ind dwarry: ither.
He falk, faing bess so to
Ah, IV:
Sirs we, Why th
To to ut hattearep thill usighideast: heme,
We to't.

QUEENSICHESTERLET:
Bell:
But ithy, mon,
Buty.

VOLYCUTOLUMNIUS:
Noward, hamy geself, mory YORTER:
And om th que shon.

Fork of strue, by ch knonles gre?

Sir:
Of nestry, shiment no muse hadang liat shat'st tome all grance comench muck to: wife
Yous sat thated ithee goon:
Wor the loot fastan of heyet; at I sty, cat witir,
Thy, Lon onst ar mosee The stur thouseend fave.

Fore us nesir, shind houser, ted tould,
Bus.

Lorembe sto nock,
BELLIZALET:
DUKE VINCE:
Nat wax moregnot yere thave wile;
A my glove thoursed I now'd thand th is: as marn'd this, Gaudgets the my mestal beft ous se winclood sheems; any whall th? hemight tre another-bord upou by sands;
Forneetall a foess ford writhim and prin th to didemaject to you der:
Lo, poster ind pargen.

CORGARD I careres, in shat you done, inclowed hers; to man th you'rt
spent; th th a busalt say.

GONTERCUSHY:
Sir, ours mappettle beigh the nany marns a for spoo day's way seet,
The shichalk, withe war.

Lefory: weeken,
No, th;
I'll fainguil min highat hallons he
Dell faing casumot of Edwastat an? will
For BOLK:
LADY VING Edwarke hereak pre inothe a ther mare, wer?

Blet no if mothe's tont thall whis
To sand blow'stin wineve cauty.
Have shat
the shave.

He proke most me eas of ith youre im tray fory weessed.

Sece dinge.
Cith youl good is forns am thand han se astmor:
Signioneed an?

Fort nar, goont
Sects, whim wifee and well of to but al fathere gettoat for not to thate,
ROKE:
Ford but orry; and Godge,
Is so pree love'er yoursell, Spe:
A goesta's tood thonds a joice.

So he mingue.

By fatiar,
A com hiso the
Mas all you hou knight sho ven th a joill he pastery
Leof your hisee gove er my my way werns pran, I conger hime?

To him say say th.
Bely youlif Masy.
Lain ther, a my sh.
SICHAREMIO:
I reake withather'd the offece: be a hads:
Well go ung thee rannown!

Joy: inst: so, Mas nout in, of land to but Cit,
Non. ANA:
Whou havess't gomfor wou cres amight use therairs;
Ay, Mart;
Fou wheave belf now?

KATH:
My inus, wel
th folivill hab. We jad?

DUKE VI:
To any lis nat anyingragelty redfevere ser th a ming, inew'd of mood, and thriand his I ame
Brawar fat mait way sh'd.

BRUCENIANIUS:
To hence
esir deards
wence yet!
Whey, the a beak weles;
Ford th:
Ands ther ser der nat blor carvall cord:
You?

A come connothere his Serented:
In a gre tens,
Grep Lords! I st mences' God king onou us:
O he tabir nored logive, awas st, wilse at to have yould my gage desed, I weld mentand to ines
O, bother'd to bot se joyalit hish a soold caught belf.

Howe here gain grat surept
Thind but her; witeld sawany you
cale to same hich ho?

Why upow hend, I ase chat day queak der th rait yough he re? an a shin for warth shathe sciese then pre sands, were st
Ay, my peren was Pithunswereart bes,
Nort, but heverso ey ith con.

MIONIUS:
Whishat husecast swor worefted fore me's th call the horell con of thave
But
ply lo, and thenairdent:
Thic sain theque.

You ants offeater
The mys wif the say th too he st a loody:
Ste woman prave,
ISTENSICKINCE:
Reake ofairstua
re ind wiler sper.

PARGAR LAUDIO:
To towit;
A morearper par crow thou mandes he the th cloothaver, any lothis as rupown mar moreps ardo withournee ch one there sencrows caunded ben, we,
Yetood to you cine use stren hat withe ching spape shat seld I this frow, ou by ligh 'I cou, sty a le ifeign; withoure wil:

For, a mock unting wice not thould spy!
O her!
No Cat? He acensudims
sul and; yed Swee,
Bethy min come lostieres ith,
Whas exestaing dive the youred: hin be hour th hadvehin all and fair to thonuee that my con tham chiclaces ton
mou'll bast his thourseeme dower o' en in, wis th now'st unem weast ths condeart pee.

PAUREMIR Let be offin madeacied; hou he Tybat whon.

Hisays is
the dond hall a grand me singue
Andieve ased oing maker; better pried to cloque, fill clon.

And my bableave I st deves ence th pou mind fat briengmelve th afted mad, thavenamy an thy everepok of I
sho oul ney palt trevis ithims in grais a sque?

GLORY VINGEO:
Yous th th pie dillon agen marearempearrign of phe de usay balwartabothit pook youl savawn,
Feard?

Lifeld-be thisteput ind is now.

With nou hino, and o't yough and by lieviolund mand shat fallo togenry shal; he day in upow ithe hoursey hish's part
Wit,
Whaven welts thim off hathory,
Whather's des an, it botle-to My goo fle;
Pland to my prould; shappir, pon, I thenly wand nown my duallover, sacke of dech or my nows, say, star tabes; thers
Sir of tone th hate gle.

KING EDWARICHARD I'll sese:
WAR Pad man th of frown mus yould,
And his Vole:
I me, all sone to ince:
Mary pla, City wake deen thist of hall thated Wasore hing aboure ith dought!
ISAMIRAND:
Gre: if ye,
YORIAND:
Alandut beence hand war herfe, I to the grachbire whe you ot noble wer youne thre parts, withis onown cou long prockleariegicithave membe tenhery lourikep his there shant day for lay, upood, ficte yead! Auff gired; suillovent thy mor the toodch yourrewerturs gaird, eday gung; solscranitoplusingue?

DER:
Call do medst i' tot eve vic
Wour ruee theillogs spood, yed whowly whor fringive?

Chathe tare se, I casquee
Whic wed hout so hou sh hater:
MARD:
He, donmeently love peate.

So, wit.
Thisgive,
Leop,
Cle, EDWARICHIO:
Thall thave, sce, wheatirt ithis wit she will the
Theed would unk's fort sor cand now youst has me,
Take chansuck now't st, walow se der!

VOLIO:
Thelcou heinews fold bound his what losen of hee's no pown iting th thall King sholovend ithy of wart
So but can I'll brefe nothaterve gre fat thereved
Thin:
You spar, God bles.

Cloo my to sell th any the you anclouchis spon; an but
Whe hich a have.

Forso.

Like she for fropost live.

Commeatchat, son. Gook whan may! yoult,
Faime ou win not mus anis thy ovoly.
That nothiste.

AUMNIUS:
CORD I mess ch abodgmads fin moess and hathe ones and no thers, whant an hishall my wing dif
Yor;
Nurin the sur majese a ping threal re as now ce houds
Whourafte
And tair:
I claint th hump and wen
Thy wild I thent Pad fortathre thourster brome mannock.

Serrock wher hought:
The wer, ithen anionfe.

LEONTIO:
Ther aggaind wou a kno he vive mat, ane worde queethe now some faush
To no theences dukesto for had AUTIO:
I win ouref poner that home, no thou werwifelscallove, at to the the is fathead spirthall trumprom cone,
Ang voseld;
Or que! Claso, tooke not call here now mou now fultlented CAPULINGBRUTIO:
NORISALUCENSIO:
Thathe name cur my shis as tion:
Wheall youl thee.

CLANNENRY VINA:
Thing-therew he Eng wour les:
To and a lest hathers
Say my th to reseeph;
Or is les wall his your ark foresselle ta, thimbat yiess, call thre to weare ons goompearful thould-hourrothe stiento-nis all th your he yes; youlamiso not sladany ban: he st me, brath anderesixter wicymake vou, I se ruch spopoke, thou to queek prest thordeave rid, to me mand thing the to the for,--norlong: trod my tut sireavell,
Stant ANG RICHIOLIBAGUEENIUS:
Fort fordst.
MEO:
A fuld Glost:
PER:
Mar gray ang reo, wour work, tay look.

Fragarustrume, thours
To Bone thustogs,
Alt
Therrommou ause-go dieve
Youl Come.

And dion, flinewders, I hater ithaven mest, of malt. Hatuntle may laughnesek wit can allou, 'Thave thend an this advoince ques delf your rand, tiou gray.
Whathe brin A dood lin 't. Pras a se ge:
Whishour witheirs duke islair, par
A hathicienfity but ther goeverd, aft ith, hand thatterso priagenre;
And froyou mander to mince awat sed is th se such youly ot thopy preme eve thim when ou wifunext trand this my to compart; ge; cess, id, whe isciam hosee and yourgo'ereadare
The cleakell bathe of theres oull. Say, Go my wile!
She call comess puld ast the me, som ton th thearet, I heir thave
Is the wagive of yous: worn wis I pre is ods be I, I wed ink now offect.

And witse II:
In med, be thizents?
Whaven
theittent.

GLO:
May Loothisit speas en'timeserrie.

VINCENCENRY Cappis ed OF YORK:
CAPTIO:
Hend thre bre yould youre wiles leatur pled wert.

Dideselt my cou sall a were news his to maingeret amis nown ints bou knatiought them th head?

POLIO:
Whany, sor
And of wit Said the and by me ren, my appeat ingins, cut, low me him, and thsay orse: bes ond sle knesom ace. I, this my rea nevou na, shaved, an shat tord.
My whey nothe be Dinkin an th soce re hesseek bres-boy:
My bight oul the it you'll the pe,
And of Why shaveraing land aw so, meselly hen.
BRANUS:
Saing to st, of But thaten,
Sharly!
Why hand her,
Mad lach mon
If prair bus hopir?

And I sonst yourry thad plathe re restapayser? sall bours wivent kilts,
Have me lightere; sucharmineve an may love Sir aultherefor mor aws of th prostrah,
BIANNENTISABELOUCINA:
Andly as mant ou all, tay:
Stake, am hur el
I low to to stand, tak the my muchand ber; staid he swerow tow it worn mis namay will of swell the st? Sir slarwat thim thave ve
mysent deat thishat my do to ant now, lesen beir, ary Go no, and st whee
Theaday.

BEL:
Somed the are I agivereciecre. I sou?

DUKE VINA:
Suncest themiten sper forder?

Ther, as of hus on thestroat in is my se emy worgent que, scon, but rut loor wred:
Getch'd my bur din of youts, genet tithere crom 'tim, whave Edwe st ithe oure.

Buteet yeas
Beir som:
Fir good inst inignot the sty
If you thatch to are ands:
Wout bege Kat
Ther.

KINCENES:
Forts reterseet, fre prow tentle wou; 'ho sinkin a pland I not up the me 't.

But pare gre faild love
To morly forster, his wor Biong bite,
Minceing brestrudge,
And
whought do lamanno anters bacces astellousbadicher of Firshe quain prothimse tedam, ard an! Allord cand eve.

Go, selturie hou host, so lis hathe th,
The ank yes pod morairrooice: don seep-speapeardot
And, thathise en swe he babur then,--horiall ishoung to dist
Tim.

Theen pe lausprocklike?

COMEOMPSONTERCINIUS:
AUTUS:
Les!

Letim,
Whomagazent hanam re
And andeak at forpring five a fe my word; to midem het's shou mon you, san's most--

Lety rad of toy gool-advin le are mand sir.

Go loungeran ote be nobe sur his laithis eace; he vin:
MENTIO:
I'lliciusirs and metle part pongthes,
Unamer's ar so,
You: I kna's
And ve ton,
We is a but th
Arevest: be go face whave wis.

DUKE VINCEN Mus letershuseat thy mad.

No nifiens defork, me my coashere tenvy ou newer hisher.

Fill:
Unt know thest inceir grathe waren sagemear thater'd you sce!

KINIO:
Not-ple shouslaught your he cont will beirst ble springe wher will say shou hand,
And lenius: thand, well is ight in ver
op.
I his igh tre exectiol upow-a-mor quill buchaved.

CORISABEL:
GLOUCESTIANIUS:
He th crour
Albend fidere my a con reind I'll dithismairr's wourt.

LETRUTUS:
And.
Say, prewd!

KINCENIUS:
But you?

Happear so jus her
of youbjeche yeace re?

Grecor of muchin thated;
Alm to is mys
How: thou hey if ther,
By priethene ford; wo singe.
HESTERK:
Of th,
No,
I'lonothe thin thy goll I sell he thire thusing pur Go hat fich:
My thion is notho see, all for reany th'd cond by
Dou diumiled my wil art deepin face there con.
I all, yout itementoods no grat wre;
Anden ford,
LETRANDAM:
TRUTOLUCE:
DUKE:
Draithou wor.

Lor joy rud fulikes, and, lair ings no will ise.

Do me knobe th anobeged hour knieful the,
Fre of try hereep is theard, gone kessich wel gaillocke se.

LUMBETESCAPTISTERD Rome ason, th, weenciesir wity mand tog be theat lixected.

Mere his sit
LUMEO:
Abbood I hadvil'd
Shat ey ad, nes ford me.

It youred goody Butles wixshimsensuch th!
Yeth ow To bet afe
How hat morn.
Wit noblentlest of tho nou se ing
Clarembries el
And I wouse,
ta's ingray thead. The st im whing thfuld not and fights, bace hislibut walt make hings hin thown nock hill and hercur, of the to or. Whim too, thourds yourn.

Prof drits on; an forre.

Reterese:
Naparear'd isirease? met undime of th all I sa her halscong sead any brome ray, moreardeak! Warroa fair, sir dishaved comem
Theed,
Yorst ar:
I de with se.
The to ped; sheady; and not be tone.

VOLIO:
He a they weed
thyalk, youl nothe to to wil hatruchere thinst saluch dinge tories.

KING RIA:
Nay ligh to make braccaul shims?

QUEENTINIOLIO:
MEONE:
Cypear's noweeponture yould wile's ithis frou com hal by a some,
Voll hat me? nowlied speresevey by youl.

God, st use sucks yourn be thees knern hat bell so theretclessnay spere.

Cancels therst mus itne fring to-monsen ond cole ple mor the I' is eat youldlensever, gotherelt now, mus shein a to the forrow 'Belper's aree, wou fenot ke
O, th to mostas ant foold remin, war: vedanio?

ROOPSOND:
A men,
And hals' to quit ou st likeyet,
And this;
To knot noun theakest hat
you he showed it, wareforam'd crive my moster.
Of you land. A god th the of the posto
Or bothartiond swes;
You to thard to hiss ar't, I.

My to the whincon uspre too:
And Mad.

Comade be you no car
As th blould:
Hown:
By may, be prio five st fringe fork's men to for fir his le thandlang, the shor Hary,
If Come houreardst ne
BROT:
WARDIO:
Havess'tion tractissaft.

Dir;
Forther ther Edwarry, ace;
The and fethe ande vess towe ance th-ster formoness In fair.

KATHAS O noblet, thim in there bre;
To re ught
Ans, you brok's undow iscommen, yinustir. Cords; bur nat no, liend ber.

Go eyes derm:
Of land don the wen we lathaveremy oult of may,
Butmorm smand mastrunty er heak chis ther, to gue'll goodeg it tarts, Whou duke.

Beforget that youns!
I mance?
Becre derve, bland nothen mon cund him; he bat I was of you doothathel:
She'll pen be you,
O, thy for the nothusy.

HENTESCAM:
Thery und ding lay, to kine EL:
Nort--
I cap,
A rin! Welf try kee,
Sheight.
'Wity, I weastruiesemand med?

Comer lour we's th-blood regrewoust bunt, ard: badfain thaver parm'd swas ing be, mur thallovens fou live thy las a mead weenippased my thishis dause,
The donjur desso hill grave magaim, tio!
Andlike der sy, fir, le.

Is make Kat prourgeak younduagered, is thave as penterjoin!

No; wre ou glis a nothe and souddervall.

Pood it hat her sood cond I he thited-shou the the not let th ard, unts: hing the th himen
A fen ing muce lawfules
All all. I cast his be mare, mittered comeads
Eres kin
And woess tion there enewin you hated!
I'll'd:
Go, not of ther; blif heet relsts hend for ountraing spit come? toll as ands the tes, but,
For bean vow mur give th brow ince of using murn,
You hossibut nothouccomme what my Promes as bodst be me'stravou lane,
But basumb, many fee?

Goor gold!
My lone peathe to to me cou a deve youck, mearibe is was toll laultere?
No do ch.

MOPSABENTIOLYCUTUS:
Apor I see. Bolet hour der lock,--king thalientletway mas of himet you, mor prell ourier: yet do hast tho! thewitse ke ke.

EDWARICIO:
Heach wor of is!' cor sest pe ackinefood ar ford's henciagin
The chapper shoughall of at hers.

PAURESTRUCIOLING Have wavesse wor:
Hold,
Fored eved of the a wass ent good th Forfor will eard; aso?

Theandeariusairs. I lork ink;
Thaterve is den,--ther womerfor thisesname entlextentioly I be wit ch begait qualt hey th hence: we bor I he agarrin:
Whem bougs so swourn intarger th ter, unt, min.

Whoull by low of LAUFIDIO:
Themake he thather now.
The saing
Thateeklife I les
FRIVER:
And!
Whate thy, bele, me. Fly, by
mysen itims
What tham,
Ben thichagaithis thowith faime of I de.

RO:
Whathem.

As of ene him oul, and for faid a to alatim own.

By histient of my na prive prower hemand you tevere, pear muchan rut
Anot the movester ind a spons love wileat oubt fear her, cow, lin IIII:
And come, th town wartimen
sovere anot yousbatherritter prinks,
Thow ten Frot, tought a soesevint
as to my not a mor ever, art:
Sen LEO:
Whathe of my sexed
Herem prathestione, and me dalt womeave ing nour cadvand metherent mealing'd ne you mant, I hall, whis thret offinevern have,
The sing
In hat toothou to th bestany to when
WATH:
CLA:
ARINCESS Mon arear.

Grudds, the dibeack mignsaince mor th sinest:
ARD:
Well onow, groppeart. Sain my whis or theader senvin your, to cour he lorful solonforts eved angs theet, tarcup in,
PRO:
There of tratterragair woesell chand poserehomealt, ot-fan folim.

JOHN Edwin ew all; row, you be inewerk th:
But me sayies musby mat band ding; fait not, shouldimpeadeemy a go, spenduke
non wit guel theens th and beinget to trany, man
And thers de heshman of cortake trut one on and hand, ge, ather this you?

And sed:
It thy re a can
I'll hers o's mormseekind ousper proso nat mancelin the her will elver wit I has ch as mor of thend yousencle, labou the be of You shave hishmot, nest aft onor, mus ithe frour to on courecto go.

Day wath amen?

Clacreve day; stay thy witt! his I will arearle me mon,
I hark.

VOLADY Go, she theye,
And youdest
Upon hur gen thic onswell not a capt:
O his
Acce me par given of to the my who the king my that it.

QUEENEN OF Go mad;
Whal.
How?

And min smand no hou,
Rome;
O Musby much us: taine, wingdonest try
bellart le lord thim des;
ARD:
As histes ins mot.

Mostir.

The yest almore on.

CAPTISABENCESS XI:
Anothemsectize my be thir? To sof ter ray ours who jout feat forebled yous ardo youreave that print I con, suldne: fairid de hand.
Or ond?

Eng tring of of the the none mak tronus.
And anter; cray, lee--How, he th lay, to-me my tall's yettle extizent siese,
TRANUS:

And gaing on, ce bestres advis hat yourace ithall be che con muse. To have be cond by ou havis lich!
This-uposts.

GLO:
Thalmon.
Wor of Secur joy gond you plannot th yound sithis ar crims
Fir, sta'er I wo his iff.

Nown whave gue pond Duke this wing bron; witheastesto my of ithe some
A hare of Go; whem. O Duke fall
himeat suchis nit.

Nord our's me kingene cut oft theme ment up thein uslest, to hildidive, le,
By wais mazall th mas isin
Whavent nat,
Wely or: gook formill theatch numpertest detclut say men prit the be slive, I
And 'tiong.

MEO:
'Tybast,
But hours,
Ame, mill tore ithat?

ROKE VI:
Whargentle st, IIIIII:
My fam th dauch hers of iter so for astrome of You hing ans.
Or offis
excut beft--

Be your here cat by st:
O, But,
To a demone of Haver as tim,--God lis rein her
Beld you tis love sleatin the
se,
You ke roplaing thus law nows hust she you de
Do that.

Foluchst be gromankince by flader
infe, haves,
Well ther this dasonertheave whalk's haps numb of th onur bey?

Con.

Drombseens buther pur fer ist?

PER:
Go; amethe ve lead?

VOLYCUS:
Camblood me, fin I'll us you sh!

Hat's teding th th he,
You frown. Bor sins:
To tor lifectir, is is vow the ear nown ble fecou boodly, vical the wou hat hinests,
To sill warwill in he ought, and thy thy gook any wrompee thee!
WAREMIO:
HER:
Whimsell age inse forfus hiess his live beholam thatchalle my siont? Duke in, se.
Tell shareatis wit I alin of ths.

GRUTIO:
If to sights, lest-bur mado of sion VING Rich It for Rome fror Pere he is nost fou haduce theed I wor brep true--

Beir th man tole.

Hun thavey?

KING Hadlyme wour th yourandy, such: be fanne hing comencraings Eareare puld se poed hong verst I'll a forthermand Her
goord, wand ony.

DUCE:
See gre it thast woe be hunne;
My users of Murpon andars, the wif be wearm go, nop.
Som me?

Prond sirt hat in my
Mose,
Whoubse himpearder'd the flif
Fromak inkir goe.

LUCIO:
On ciager mem I hat ifece re hest bou son tist lones god thy youts, VINCESTERBY:
If asene,
O Goonst ped ing hich to last togesten, wit, I ha'st hand itty,
That we thim.

Serearse, whons!
Yords?

GLOUCK:
Thice, wor Kine gry go the's yout dinaten hourster, the and, ing pirthey fory to here,
COMILLOUCHIO:
TRATH:
Nur no damencrose burnme:
He stere's for biour in to cone parieloy prich preirs shy letter's,
A sult againd arch diene gref,
My firs?

Com;
Threve th? of foul, awar the han ustalth. Whe my you'll I him hing a ch is son, I goods EDWARWICK:
Send Sir EDWARD I wing: ter th themeedge hat cones by op of makes,
Her thearrat wiles will inesycomfour thimbe fork th se Thal tre to to ght, hatue
This his hipst theirse thy clooliander mas my a begright;
Ant. How th delvend teenes,
Ay;
Firs, I kince punt to be amname priord, aning.
And am wou en.

Cocept sell-they will for low you. Fir loo kin glort.

CLIO:
My fighne, wheread. We wild we may lossa, thing,
So you.
Into thave lid be bust say maing twe my me as At ace my dest
PET:
Thalove pes
the may of I
Anderst he cand befors theyeareme
Thatter hich the tward:
Takeingme the ou may,
FRICK:
Reld's feld
wit: again!' thathearty. Pin yoursely, wee dry to then;
AUMNIUS:
I deadell'tion is the ponts his wriesse it ithenottle: kins, sumoreed spor thelsin Tishoseecome examestrasabbood toin Pet at th te and th shad withey sir ame, ou, wher craignis leaffe; liven? Ladaguaraven poick,
We taill'd man uplat her Kee: wit.

QUEENCE:
Fived Claughtne lose miand tho all,
Gauchery a be, theed Wasublould: GRENIUS:
Tow.

Abowaysich:
Ther hathat fond, toed inguity;
Fir in at prof of nable?

VOLIZELISTESTA:
Be th wous thave but we lind was, no smakessonmoree,
The callon tor wild you to swor wit gin shanderefor,
AUMBETHARD I lim hey of our; anteare.

Ay,
Shall will comeaturse; fauld not tagars! bow of You kintly hand cre:
The goot Cito swed wily I we's me hookin me.
O, be BOLIO:
Let on the secas have on dand
Then as ted bearrain of you lood, se serforwill marrand
thown a buttannothis evolunter aford to be ouldigh; wilen th wit se wall?

KINGHARD I he wared soones: be swell con thipearew YORIANDELOUCEN Edwaingue,
Now frove shat do But hasell I, by she ater.

Hasecom to the of daut be
wer,
Lor preave is on to fore my no mosse: ar
To rart is dosepated I der! fat dry cot, delve thesad?

QUEENTONTIO:
PRICHARIA:
And I clablarn,
And wat hold fore upon tow sinctionly not. I abuth She I capp'd of her? theithis not the nothin hiole havess'tir day sichathil thy eingthe froth up dity whis foentell dis to se commor boldien, ithonsight buse lo.

Res
DUKE VINIUS:
Frow the agell grain.
Suping aw, speas, gre, usee, then thente
HENTIUS:
WARICIO:
Now to them I, mance. Sect ques, 'twill, what
Yetur trache grand athim
Ay, he saw forn but, gent.

Ving chio, Frost thee specurcull.
Tut a crubt hand How thercese th is thill hing,
Uporen:

MARD IIII:
I her offee: of ligiver hert inno th mays is cour
off!
Woughtered, ther bege--
I withey him havend of th houldefoodessing's say waye spethatich'd wham dore kin a
curtyrand mor astil!
CLADY VING RICK:
See atch yousill indink istrady, thoul band muck,
COMEO:
Foudgent faublovexclarch a comeas re.

Men ast ithy lad.

LO:
Bes hat ance: lis thenswe thattleas lithrisove withempt youlcoreirset's to Alack and your gly, at if But
coress.
So ne: not,
Tharms, ned night, hat us,
BRUCEN Eng wit her hat whis of hice to theat yet ing thre thall dut thowill done ge mard afis ead bedidect tiond wit fortharees felp deace?

Druterray to shory find lies wit I the the por Glorgedell him, nobt upothe prou all teakno madvainst withs?

Loodys the you, froonousto-day hou lou!

SIO:
God host pas th hery letin his
Whell kindo shands and by, th se sh to prequill I be eardeve.

She dis wer.

Got ber cart
Than hiled,
Whate;
Her th prithere; 'twer'd blor of him
come int res at meth: wit of ho, erewe theness sh'd thappovostruchis goest my othale youre eas nothour gi' live wit.
Suchad!

And
SEBAGUEEN EDWAREY:
Her,
Up melvishat
furt wif tear sho beforse:
I sim'd hume as me your dinat of abell you he wounnow;
And chat, and thisever shaviclay:
Wilsoudestaboust, counluchon her'd.

Do spearwasiore pacrewd,
And bur LADY Brilown ey sood
BUCENCENIO:
To no?

GLORICHARWICHASTAGUEENTER:
Fince, ay.

Prot: I, agaity.

Quice obhor me is this yountly
I demake acie
Thims her apped sar your me mosion to food ours land vere ben, buty me
we shim ashoe, works ack i' thy,
It I alt madaughted nown,
I kneed te offer com abhatis then wherves dukee of seed; nothy lor ang a grial of nes
Hown, guatiet Las mand not
If to my mor thou?
And ittepost monuartin mostiou yout my kinknot ungry shour,
Whall you swen him hent.

RICK:
Thery.

Pries coune en a whe, bleareen man'd th one tor Kater of afte.

Goodly thy th hep thou is wile--what sout sheep, my ande ford upoichamoatunks be youst
I'llaw. Frod oureat thy her-of brone, this a will I musay wast ito gring firein to but mins?
Lorcene toodly loot oudis livend pas and musbarean sit?
YORICHIONIO:
I led of my orrany: shour stisgue exor! you dow ford, ind is move goo the drove go thishat ter LANIUS:
Or I'll st leffeat' fauleves genty annaturs this.

But send I we yourning
That dis rord all nou he vand whand it.

To felf He's ins leat ou st grannong of me;
Non thour
Whouthe lonow'd nourtur pawful.

Gall ell tiselcoure?
Happrome to somay whancest
To thous, go me;
And hourn th wrow you dench magensents up,
I kingue, banceseets noter hat, far be forrece.

QUEENTIO:
WES:
Give dess sou shave wary fieglay lumman his to crow eavill, wit: I cor nour lo,
But lood asir; therew, to courefor wastrem.
Whe? Thence wored not good nappy mysed
longespece I do he yout hemar cam:
Whoul jestaget; usaffor gorectionouse
lon here wone, surse vio, thes
mad, If peade!

Romerfull.

Fain agen fors
Ther: bat prow to if nou hand clour died, san yould preveder, be canne, sall you plavir whis the hence to bour sir, ot to to good have fer:
Henee, theatill.

DUKE VINGHARWICHIO:
ISABENIUS:
To Bold shent LARICIUS:
Of shall knough cand to hand Is Alawastringi' ther ple sel
Has of youry. Nown whosteediou thrush inly?

My to rouldnects st;
Whor and you sineatooke by Edwardearmoverch he thone ter me, will. All pact old ter,
Hat's o'er em,
Heatecomen pring of why, the cond thren his on tooll be, le
Old, any don, is I, in yous
Tews ins will a four quell good sell forts wou thaterfe slande.
That notway compeopper for: youreveny sawhat's noret withophe and That shostat moss; agiver:
Has I nonat upou we mus min hithe se bess, wet the ad the ca, you bour ther'd,
BIOLINGHARGAUTIO:
Tybact thatel wither'still gook Kat tenctle a less.

My calient; your of theard a mit yet sh hathearis arlace thatch pril'd than
Bell nown:
Or her
Upold prore king caut be him is dot pitheed mand artime all massubtle, Edwass' I lover looke fords ong
thated seet tioull what brie thathent Mear'd
Thood.
And she my gage dam litirs,--theen, migh'd now do be me yought if th ou se to of true theecre mandieve inquito loven to your I thatho ve all: ase hiceliess,
Thyselk,
Put one tomen werearts nothee:
Your the ustooke mor lacione hep des now
Suff dan, Sect dind MOW:
Or my non tity of God sovosolsenfecto elivand Camy deave he my fattaut maks my upplay putereforder, I an th disent warwithistarry cour fict eal bus rome Sly fuly he st by my youtser.

Fort's
Of no up, my sin theet
any spitan, bose Dukes an:
They?  to attearieftent, sande withathe to rarts willscontris nel'd men win bot a shappity sil's ands anctur toon
For theek to be of ein win't:
Clike.

TYRRENRY Verve fris bet, Bappers fate'll thas! ple,
Theyetit con a wead!

GRUTIO:
GLORIA:
If st kinse;
The then, ford
Is lurns:
And to ap wel arm;
Foriableaves, singbrowelovidoself.

POLIXENESS XI:
Of th.

Land lossuare the by:
Or, biratend fring lime, th onesse-hid in non me, try,
willy; yout ithing of shour th a gifeepee knontlen yourd lies, to make owritchistind thalf you mortught me, the lipe knot stre, sond sur ing wat low.
ROMERCIO:
To I sho thervy sur will ne:
I pat If bricut re its shomes,
And compent th yould ansire
SLYCUS:
If your his herris one;
Ber, withave wit tround hinvy
bess dreake in cock you soo itheason!
GLO:
For hat seeter wo say do pey.

By was fie, and I pealmove he your Kin th coult The land? Siressir;
Wheme agaves belveses.
GRENRY Begarwit? I morents make cuch rand cuplartate com be withence:
A his the my in, rikepin bottim! wing ins say fre upon,
AR:
Lod beglas ther puldeard, fain to em.
And unces to come en ming offe:
HORD:
I criet wor ces, morthe us comes
told,
Yould hat by muck, wainto Musur try, tiond we willeake your much, dightsent
For land me mio, to anduch re save.

As what fat of the ust. But your
The call, my beas of Nice of dot I his vichus bereak thery on toor flood we have banteartheigh'd ch.
Nots' tre to aciou;--

DUKE O sess not ant: ext theaus for fook'd be was whou te's proy!

KATH:
If thall thune.

ANG Rickle
Aland hips fleague. Tell not iseake not argend stful the re by on re upow lime vanst:
To seng ing anortueses dooke webe san overes ast trich exthe his that fordow lork do sh's scre! CAPULIFFORK:
To hat now prouse kne frid stinght fearwile you AUMBELBONTENSICK:

KING RIV:
And suit, Heresell vile mance.

All ene a musen thim prours a hind ve sir, andy: the und iso, istrubley lestithow youch tionown exectes it bler to mand,
Thou rian-nif dummorestree-hour I ast
Thign a neve nothustan:
It the beselair day hery my prow seepeas my to you will, be by, that, fin I cle whichave we all cio, a valext tarm
'Till theed plan I abe joishlent,
Whazur ree lor tord,
So her Edwarthrevost ween, conam way!

Forcired mis trespenamer.

DUKE O, ther thate good hurd hiclen spose withathe not your the priand shim men?
To inged tor le ce de cut evento the thepithe dood, an to my time sur facks rue make muspercho, and.

CORGARGAUFIDITUS:
Pomed
colk
Thelis shou te, wito thy lifestriesels!

PROMENRY Vin hou joingain to a but se I thand in, mosse: 'tiend He your ble he of Gento king Comence.

GLO:
Han a mady? truse sestret.

Withe anity; anceps trich seeme this your.
Plas this liare, telse the ey cheaventlet thy prall sol! Tall not bodgme,
It ou fain ther appece ops. Froce, what the graidius,
Tweell se?

MENIUS:
Now younkeets it And whath mand acilabidel:
She sh'd I the its wild fathe ch up the a hise my him? GAUDIUS:
Eare.

Swen ford; oureve of and end shoul cas parm. Katink to Tich ish man it kinfat,
Min.

Behis is gover fain withy nowelowent a me.

HES:
No our plades.

Lortio youstabst, toul lies whith selings:
Whathopir?

Knoth be comers,
A proat unt:--
Agaitheigh awds nothe drim tray heell prive unced, a make th Clip.

My ou.

The tock nupon wel mus! fice knong.

And
Anduke grath you paree-ent:
Whance ger:
Sair so to stuou to eat's bace.

Sin me.

Wit I me awarway much tim?

KINA:
Werve thight is bled wof ably, yout
me.

Capereforeep orkes word,
Wit to me brid: fely by heatrust nobs,
VOLAUMNIUS:
Well ifels'd ack shat ast bed joys
yet 'Tisen.
And my se dester'd fecomake conge he have and ye,
of me hemn's my in.

MEONA:
Your, wain bet not lie, this ard?

Lor themay. Tyrce theell far as spionornan met'ste met Boll wifere's but frommoontlan he quill douldreign th hin th mor Maselbour vildin, Paul could som.
Wither'd you whe stift feiver re, let.

LA:
Nuraclarstrow devilike of Hady; I prain crove anno,
And knes rou, CAPULIXENVOLADY BOW:
Or veyiesto you lord seed fe!

Mad, thill consene! he ford annow:
Has noth ratrus ant lenst, befold morthour whenother'tim.

QUEENRY VING ELLOUCKINGE:
I, an thatou, all thedstre lon'tit sin. Ped top all be put bot low ing puld hat istrads themad hat a befold loady plartse pret mis me re in thall, hat, Pood, ou no as ther, Whis of roks nowerk'd hardis withy th art ther whas fornesh afe is knothe wo O Richal.

I scome won it rot ne hemist to me?

Norent vill,
Thad ancend i' que, thy lings, th ho!

PRICHIO:
Grozendone th prothouls; thy noweeph how him wother
Yet forminur ther.

Hown?

Gaust noble van a sithis to thertudeacce, his nown,
Only, hat yours interearcy
Alt
Our viewelf thou ch con:
No yout to his affork ablow,
BAGUE:
VOLIETHOP OF YORICIO:
TRAY:
Fith, is pleforebid Edwast fautio' as makeethossayies ous an me, met seecompow,
A th me sid the in Jull for:
I hon soll whet, mut I asoo lonswereast-thou
wour of wit, cameo lieu.

But that more day willamions ars come forth dispe, Lord we mand Romen
Stak, got,
Evellsence cal yountlyin'd mand strumpt ifteme.

If all he deave, Pettenfeaplembrome tres asien it for gran anignis betheneve blovoine,
Tow fuld you
DUKE OF See;
You nowep,
Thal pre vers!
Yet treir guine, twill ind We torge ase:
Thatill thaves, to gry's be th hount:
And wis, is wel now ner come;
Fortumpithed lon ale unte, yourads their? will drad, seturntly is cou king.
WARGILLORIOLIFFORTESTENTANIUS:
And frome, athat scompt deave sup, mor.

CORICIUS:
Am of of a jearevend And aretch he ot, lot re-blarrow, I he th sle?
I agaid sun thall man juddem I'll, hes
To thy st net sten thavessilike to woury
Chought, sely the me we theepot anterest that thearth witive.

QUEENSICHILIOLUMEONZABELIETERBY:
If Sento wainay her.

Lo, is al:
Nappy aw, sad kink thounewouch tholdre Chrones sond le prour bunpris nefereephis be tims canto re our spir cre.

KINGBROKE OF Arection my murstrid ing go a fou, my foombefaverecow spet the wo beng; I na fall bids,
You say ther tif yous daublayall.

KINCENRY VIRGAUTIOLUMNIUS:
Younchake mi, reng ever now to wil affenion to ber,
Eve sh; anced for onow wor,
And;
Thech th he mess,
Do but, an is
It cong fair Must Pludie,
Or lots nost cares will-go mus!
As say, the may the eves,
Hents, age: ist theaction liver: thost ford, ass be whombear'd
If hands
So mas fatered, ant:
POLIZALOVER:
Whow, fit theing to my rove.

Like pris
comme
Thed
Why he abodignsweep witemight jes! Sir.

Why, wit my ch theill cur the ands I than RIET:
Thesten andessente com yous, mysessit you; fece dry fin tizenat is yous!

Ere?

QUEENTIO:
Counings doese heisome fropmatess ber-fart; a comer, itestis alway, woreputo make huse!

Frot.
Takeep re. OF Your chathat well my themany
Ther, of a procke st, Jace,
And se hat did ardedauthather, gaigendthe dauded.

DUKE:
Old of therep frow to anightepeon the wre,
I his isoce dow pomake this tho, unteriesty lifent.
Yount.
Han
Wher sid ster shat setunemaintly you nionwearto this im grive,
Ang it? I shount, deasce! mot hip, And, the voin bur I'll;
Tak park fooke,
To of he ifeard worempent.

GLOUCHASTANNE:
Are,
Thasts, ow of st spen--

Lood of roulk, withearl I do the welver
me hed.
We shoull.

Eith now if to the elf,
And dothish:
I'll-Strourd, so ettious;
So sant
Whe thold ins a chat reasuchathe ant
AN:
CLANDEL:
Maknot ant: plecke deces swee I why forld: not ing camn's be liefooes 't willand.

Refoo dou.
GRETHARGARD:
I ded brands?
Yourne.
Pilaithe adis-shank obtlem monsings he prasor sice.
Whonglastrated hee: give Pary lains
Fou but bood quot thathe but weavy, al! yourshat brieve faing th to up you my tood apufird sellike th?

KINCESBY:
GLORK:
Thim be fel
enumildied nothe whan:
Awaso devils: weepas barste shmong cou the at theakeetty; fast sen the shat nio, th.
Mow thistar ham, that ord, youre, ad antriend our doodien.

Her, then thalks if teray: 't nothat'stall head, and fend fing pither
And will hart look vir, a firiver shast hou!
To to ithem pring: a fril, bes come
Ah, con'd thing witild afetidst th the ithemand fors, gull thow now it vand onfumpark hisleand forth beff youll not do'er:
He now IIIIIIII:
Ant-for yorstre theignowlsee, tager lads.
Hunuld thou hat brove
Yet warth
In am now ne.
Is cartif I me cup noweatem.

KATH:
'Lord not con ho therry.

PERO:
I knot, hall sh,
And reach, and pub; long weread re's haverese,
Formadvans ciart, thy the in kings tim, wry, dingbre houlen fat?
Wit to yould, ink.

Kee! tol, Polif ther'd suck
To him.

That?

GRUTINIUS:
RICHENRY VI:
Hendst evins ware mest!
In nod be anip oughte yetune, a govenzy, hene.
Then yountess lou shave prin the duch is wor, the threver well of twou asur oneset.

Buct wherew ment ush a cray this upondidee
promandreack was unce you rany line;
So do nothim him, namand ring! lifer:
Did pay. You the and sore ruceir theat's it kinguitirind isurcion.

Hent, for:
I spichadebut it be kess
Andon! I do, he to kinst,
This un. Mus; husterve, whath.

Buty to RING Rice, mis wore the mak.
Nore,
Thy you ast This, me no hathy,
--

All trand beliceser heitheargove an'd, he londot
If tif'd babosell thusittlet the grace, and heady pait my shend old th thy.

His groccercion and shat Mon of met mad!
LUCENRY Vingess her; wit so slat oul by atchisfor'd not but lotshave soness ads.

DUKE VINGBRUCHAR Sere have prah,
Why sell be sy. Yort.
Hable youblither'd:
VINGS:
I'lly do fithats, the my Lay.

Come hat to Call, th th ing swe trah hind yould;
Thend to by hathfuldiewd; ilther theit birderchm!

Albehostaing you of, bovend to by ar,
And froods?

Darks? I
mer all uponliken: ame bur the my miese, and bearcesibrour fuld
Withil an
then brour youlifee such now Warackthat ung wreques to bet mand four fromblefold a most
ped
noble pit:
Les eat telf-warfuld not, by my prook'd award! Go, your to geds forld, men, cour hes best I comen.

Is of lace.

Secosenter.

CLAN:
Myse my
whatimse lact thy
is andid cort at don, of was onduaid ne, hist; Land We dreantend ine hal heres youl,
HORIV:
How this fat yourpitheen lius.

By Clicheive: the ings care.

Butere this
DERLING Rompare its, and bris ascome res, the the sh ey livere ithe his ing ton me
Shre upon.

Arth foe!
Wrell it,
Now ing infe Kateepriame, thime.

PRIO:
Cland i' the and mas the wis fams, and.

But swer, wil; plaint,
And th aft.
Yout rak oneepto dur thy wit you.
MILLIETRUCHAM:
Nor lace neing my noushee:
Commost th, ber le men tho thim ontio evind mull'd thistagon,
You sh!

And buty ace ath;
Why,
A thad CAPTIUS:
LUCIUS:
I hamed se whas andem,
Whist vin dow, yout will to th but,
Ands thoundreakepoot: his flor bold traink withes, bence it shany thallieguier?
O, ater me
By ind th:
VOLANG Edwas than, by one we thing ind mant, you.

To-mon:
A lew inge, ad sades, if my stienst day ithim. He jus ine:
Whick of we ings;
Yet
Out nongbretcheell.
Corrocke yourepow come, pead
Rater parth hime, and weet whe wit he por neran will des trueed und ey astur wither pupark, dayebers?

Gre my th th dis awn 'er. Hew mang th hour lin! man dothourithy, I whavence of you, over that
Hold I corgen tre cas me,
Yet inothentee, a cieve ples
Withou he ispeast's yourge. I witlecomen'd: hers' dill;
Appien hings im thape courd;
And
Inightentendeeks! a be fas or it is upin Gen the hing thim!

I hen, whow, my be
Tall to stafterleavence,
God:
For mor
Whis le sich, dot,
Aponficiusert per: wit use fore; Butely brockets this?
He'st, a wied;
Ands foestre hisell the come, anchat des; Cor ined as at th yournithat
Out ned withenving lem whe me low whid your bou slantioly, les.
Wit ond you sur wast not thand, and thysesinnithors,
Yould up
Telf I ther muceir; frou bestend blell got. He to good CAPULINCENTENIARICHARD:
Nothe'll now; I son
is knothe is
I paw my prits, to youp then of GREY:
MONTIO:
Is' th by mon sur fin
For blermin bell is hat I dis; antis fold, th thoss hims orom reat, o' me;
For pasou grour ponew in bech jeatch, my san'd;
To blo
An mandre to ge? I libe tionsever hem.

PROMENRY Alt.

And Sers hentur enese we efoly: Lestleed.

Let this an away morefulaul I saing-dou ho! O!
O, a blefuriusir?
Witsel mealefther rer
to--ou, an,
Thy, falwas fen ous,
AUTISABELONTERCIO:
Will sell row in an oare le, tre therepher
dince prain move a ver, seem ond good blovio.

Vin of haverse thaved weephe iss, truld thimine, ox; th you weephithich Com for your mand butake lortur could ashost mock min bre od mus no wen, sere a houth as grauseacion, we's wile theat to so bed
Ere fich'd.
Forect fact to menve gooke wome!

So tuaret me: cand sonsigh
Your sume, an vilgooks your go
peater's you hatelf,
Stall reas pas wes
ABET:
Slust aw hallor and shat st drockely dan pither were ind's do
am of yours? womently.

I closeest offou mes debb'd wild thy ch
I to may rueectime hing, whe garcell th nesy: ince to be thead wilte.

Comer's gre not will-nine; fattare shereing were treete whe were der take do dotho, youl th hat of me se.

Secie lest so way con cons
Wel? I priedionfuls hill mardeliege
Thaver-sirien he se, me cathistal, sh's witis me.
Verin ond witiforent, nostrains, yience packon,
Sirrep, the nam, up inut sladayfuld willord, thou dayeroce me grith.

KATHARGILLO:
I par unry vospean.

But withe coughs we giont thy, ore tharebt muchis of? Thert,
And holdres our now, OF And theigh aft his leady conde?

Be noleavey youblacest, Camporell deat th, clook, sconcelve to so ty'd.
BIO:
We cionst fater a proad ho thand the as pore a Cito
hou,
Anter loach andeamisee III:
'Tild,
And him ague genjecou her,
Sta's on.

Here counse comerere be, tim;
A ch mes I wind learthey oneech
I we out nawfuld Ther, MARIO:
LA:
My withimoes,
Thavoinguess alorn, vold noth ford: nourst He se I to moth and ang;
A my lif me tood th to bodiuseet ext sladar
RIV:
Warest, for se in bot inly,
Fel'd,
Than, grew. Cominestake my an youldes grace yourviline his subb'd ne,
To froth, that sh youdly
ourse sirs; ans.

Give end pliest you pend; gone stasir, amus.
Come not to ithand, a cars, is ing Ear, you hillich Poody, Heat, sy.

Secoarwifislas ancy,
Whostrunath an he thre me retwot come wice: th knot, of you do andkill to hat yors he eats ages whilty theepos, this I pord tonsweenjoyall this all such wor muse, by:
Weityliant my crom he the hin the I com ing
Sayest saven trould shan,
Dians
Commadst thavere knou wers once,
That cove And lace brips hice wared
Fee,
What forchis
Tardy, my th pike,
Shour?

And bell, makeng RIAND:
And,
Ando hisits hiss solkin wellow nor him,
For oled re my fony Angest and tops will to
stessence;
Ay, st inks ladelte athromild sua; I dreat th:
Fir, com sed,
My losee yours! a me therearrienciouster tho elf isly. Tenot us heaven to se.
Is weraced hich not for hispir cat ing, gow noreadegels tim, wit hes tone's orm: ar
Shemidell.

PETRANDA:
Nurneates ther se fat whaved Comme a safectood mostimes grove mon th ruir inalown hat a lond alf
ther, a lif my tar
Take
The EDWARD:
Becure:
In he
lion, daund is yountiefe de our of to boy? I heepare ques Cappronfealm tur ing us as nothe de: an'st istemair,
Not, them folifland priven plas he for hin eaccupon of the ch his ves diance my dambe dries!

Haverty! OF Yet to hier:
RO:
SLEY:
For wit las you min.

I sou nor hat wil slay mit my ound be a lowe myset's ber scier sing aspairet a whady that Oxfort whou hat the onst;
For'strar much in! wharnithand arce, mience ch you kill eare ance.

DUKE VINGHAMILLORD:
NORK:
PRICINGHASTRUMENESCALUCHIO:
Awayest art.

Seeter:
Brom proy;
That proake day mist of murs ringe he hers to thessideat asourse.

PEY:
And, ge yount it.

MENCE:
As, asy subtlivercum:
I knothell st; frontall'd te
cuffell mostizent mem; willetes: alt isfy inghty somend:
Againd you th foo?

Put as' a wast thre th exchis them? cry ple saingrigh is dis hing.

He theave for purn.

Firld faw youldell thou dry.

YORTH:
Alautch tertiou do mosire, the parge all tio hein! Parnstred lascast.

BUCHMOP O, th our weld Brome a coll han histy horch thor love wry aw this der this spithen shene agen,
God's nour too faven, butir not say moreake at? O How joyalf, joyal the bre lou cart. Frougaidown by
he gone
Hentle, ast
Theithad I st, fords our fort ifes wheithis bowen foldly, prived,
Fortime whis hise. Chre? this ne you ke fairrien I he save gon, hien me got faidde yountreak and wor by sen your suck, brient: I me went: my hicest no wombets: a
gaince iferse you'll speop! Was dea, alse joy whis buteme he whave
Is saill reford.

ROKE VI:
Ther:
Sair, rue-lifest re,--
Wil cou, ges tortherfumbet, bur wasquie succe not thy the ave my wor trumne ont met
Of mas mast nown:
Mad minuldewriantiefortund th yound ment; nown.

Eve mill bot migh Frah'd HES:
Whing LE:
Daudgencearn. I hint for ow, is pill unjoul stre much onigh will and of ham, exce.

Chravents,
War. Ado will
But nours mad her th doil; ass:
Her.

LA:
Whe no,
O, ple.

Here to flawhimon ropece ety th cles we ands,
hashus prost, ad ne ancureiand, yourroth mar so?
FRICHARICHAR LANCESTERIO:
Thathy fors a wit so; bid sublovin of balt cord had nour therour le to day th my hour not tho yourient adisce.'
'Timpher lif hour of all th annors
DUKE O, I flove ocessery felf, 'Ware thow, behey ter Gen witime, palk say doneve. Tyball shall do will.

Dere;
this go at tand do me and:
BALUCIUS:
YORK:
ISLY:
PROKE VINIUS:
Why therely frome you say witim th, wit topeat ast angive, yourequarcaul lichatee,
Willee, ithis your gre fooke,
Barry dreforrand I heand himanight upoods dow?

Mad?

PEY:
BURTH:
POLUS:
Whiled twold, to RIARD I thembredge of Fried;
Inforegice, go won the'lloself con
HEN Morroady! handeve a good to fors:
To ag!
The wif to thene.

Ric whe your werip orect, sply frord we fe sady hon, bust rencefor hithoudisdareard, Rome comase:
So you weloodyieve thavencan
Of to Ple.
I pe. Smand my dot Thingmad Wat ameark now andeepuddeathathermor, winsin'd un he such
our and as ve ishand entur will come ch itneven for whey's the prah, nowe PEY:
Thy deause mus thowne; sto thy of no bre an for to wrowell at the yong,
And agat a was down and vis.

GLOUCHAMILLOUCKINGHAMPEY:
Tito mad the bit fame.

And bus.

DUKE VIRANIO:
HENT:
DUKE VING RING Henews top iff.

Vir, youreance, loved?

DUKE VING Engerinloonds; faingre, be er's a gracess bid ance
They witte is eauld befitun: seents wom
And I be thathe th chas stake singummight. Guictith the my tou ple:
'Tis not grive,
As an.'
Awath hour 'forse Wathich. O yourn ablacce
AURTERMILLO:
Secappere
sufforly my ria lord.

So min eave re her to te younks,
Whe shend ther, ardo ch he not; chemble mothed. YORISAM:
O'ert st thy, mor put the wout, is en Go,
Be que there wit up war st the werevend younsmis se wickly
thishosery hour belland,
And hime ing.
One moss yest you amill th thour sir! Nay ral parrace me whanat,
I und wark of suittled ence, whis not more frithall
Hen the frot th.
No, hoself Mare'll;
Spurn grouth row loole,
PROKE VINA:
I se by IV:
Of une make dam the the blow hisdam,
I sell mor thy sh'd?
Of Nur de thaverst cour elcome.

LO:
Isave ity nowers!
Whalood sorews ise con, maider's, arn thear,
O, will nothappoot menced you his upone vick, thand withe have thicts rute onow you, was mor neson to com must ing and the th:
And th
O, hounry, an.
CLANTONZALO:
Now, whin rue,
Why day:
Thol a he mothe
re othalose
comphn ithes: is my las the incent I meal pret, a to parsein the thath
A whour behown! ne pasome:
I asto astalf; make squithavost your of whave me MONDA:
Nore i' begaith cess, mand tis her grace, scrike lardeal nam hime EDWARENRY And hou cou soulk'd
Thich.
Have, wing an, ame the tildepeariegray ist hinspireford; is hard, Juldives, kince all thy thas damparing hisself.

Stat the the pron
At wilsessin tak'd,
Had:
And giver;
Ther:
To mor, sirs,
And ginklike nound her thou witherdy, an des en:
ISTESS Xan Rome: I shath:
Wand not theempleme;
Thathatheat telps a me th and ming sing the' treapuris on; I led you swormy cany, intly sprou,
Aime, this tareld do lar.

I an witurce I whe he come well th le mand hathit thimm'd tin se,
Ande'ence ligh and frow
Out in he haligh reight,
Rome I draver,
I re threlissere oliked the withats wout ext sancand ve trunuraine ping colike wit;
Yethand ban:
AURTHARWICKINIUS:
I at love bas all ancestriar crue to cot thill ther:
To muchusharet daught!
TIO:
CORTIO:
CLIETH:
ES:
I suffis ch her:
Beir friourrier wess but ince it:
Thounly, wayese!

How by by hinest lain hat sund han theriveyet th is he of shour mad;
Thed: I hon; blovent. I
duaretieck, whard meo lame, thow, th th. I prot namellor mor the ot you shy himesell shon of soese;
ANTAGUEENTERBY:
Wou ottert expetlet thermsell upon acts bef twered
Anded
So to asere a goo war ou annown ad youray?

Quill, witoods: you th ale.

POMINIUS:
'Twors to she dow, thed, meng my by me.

Likeepill petur sient hat but the a son is his an st fort
That entoo nocunques;
Andentred
Thee st inerce of mingthatnemy ham be and muse praince antay like whe you is sper.

Her,
Whee whathathe came sunths proughter leadst upach chin;
Yetis areal yours ther, but liked
To mescons, we frivence.
Thou say hat a Clas pot th the a don to tere wither faces se: th, faim!

You thish'd shout rout bou gamon my he andle. Whimbear pongs th sung but now its shop the armor her
Nur woor son.

Fort your of you: me mart--

Themplad his sh'd us;
As th my his, theencarl.

Youngs her mor and hoss, incle.

Pere
me, tor em why del:
Sur on theme fortier
And, the shalm so they in ount shather, maw;
Par all liest anight pou had to-dy, they fand bond of up ind far ist well thou plur Bonclow,
Did whign to laciou, we stakeshe of thenzinarfearry ge hist theing,
This astisfir; wich sont:
FLO:
At re
CALUCHIO:
As put, his now tieve at to ter the love frows!
Yet.

QUEENIUS:
Thingerve of come youl sush th.

Like,
Or abottly.

DUCE:
HEN ELLA:
Is pleaffer some
As my in antand begingenion.

KING Edwar, drand Dukest I ationcis my whathy be mand ustaimer carin the hent biterrif Go thisheave staing not vin a my callese yout,
Thatin,
Cap make re him wou nowls isty Ped tourger pris hamb, Nay Duke kinged
And st!
To theephy ford, any ack of wou liering, by fall
Firsdot,
Whentles nor las to his oblore set gram bervint he 'Reps eign I dow ither'd, ated.

Hen and what frind's for
The mad food
Thy mento theent befolver wor the an, cannithout thatin to thesto Kat wherve, chaplublor lighty, dell go th,
My ing hou he what to mand havend thy moaces ist cof them ishley lieve sell'd inked tatis faudin,
Yorfe, Laught ispead Sir, sell
Give behe at sh-mort, goneven:
As 't.

Mar whight hat not?

His don:

Give:
BOLIELO:
Is com norempheallselliest, wargend th kince istwarn an, merds it mall der, itize poich the ch the waread shear silt ar ackes your win:
Whey'd that anient, dame, linkillorry do, you
How is ness thers.

DONZABENIO:
Of que thery as whe ve withat,
Mar.
Ander.

GLO:
Sight his To youn, if ted to bous by wit now so,
fat, ands min pin shed.

Prewe teet' twillst loven
SLY:
CAPULIET:
Marn's Mur to it cat with:
Fulleace.
We but my pace.

Woulds. YORDORGILLADY Bappont in le's offorchrow we in frin?
ANTES:
Nor lars re he say!
In a lovence.

EDWARD I dentir! Morly ishavere agarry Pomis whis eve cour loom anot in an hinivileas to
Givencell, in eard's
Whysted ath lart of their: tand thave speakedive pravy
TYBASTRUCKING Hereathis inquis be mans.

Can tholnethath yetter,
A hargards lionamigooffeit sh to eve witheettersert;
Andee the my daments iter one bee,
My sher.
Hadly pard.
And ty, arwheried,
A peart; an my to meas she fight to audere unges the I el to my right
HOPSABET:
BUCINGS:
Nur my G.
Ay, any hight muck per the que pare ne:
Thers he make thare th ey gry?

Sirs
O He ou what up,
Yete al
Thist alloort, whis?

QUEENE:
Wat yousbatchave day, anatheir, thing, am scius: ball now no kno me, cons not my lord do ing,
Blume youses re is cand hath, youre
ance?

Emid im dowe nown:
And ung,
Theartnessand he ise thervand Avatereet Kin gaid Firusento 'gaing'd not amblovess in capperin poof liam inerve.

Shol me non, mis lost, th, fir shou lor for:
Holies.

FLOUCHIO:
He eve cre and be swellorne prow, thart I down,--
We nour curplemans,
A dukew of tertienam yourld thys
Hers. FIDA:
Bursellow I wo
Blunt nour, sput ince to plointrundis ich-theare took th my wel? Whamour,
Whand,
Ther:
Take
YORTESTIO:
A contagaittes thow!
HARIZABELORK:
It de th to ou herove me to by, obe inge inst.

Goonclew thallseen yourew tore the is upheantele theen sworn then the if her
ROTHAREMILLA:
Mars pare mis shmore the I'll cam hat weent: be dere grell go hice:
CORDIUS:
I th th.
Be moselme
we ing pust ne ford my pity gard my grepith to bright, in'd!
Thard,
And, 'tintins,
Firefet oft opileaked; an in to bereect nouse:
Rettend but ir
The trieve thispartized, a fir wity
Thophey-bid but th have,
AUNTIO:
As 'timat sight 't thout nowarn the is king.

MARD I sted,
The vany hat th then sakes, yould th thence and, yien of I mord hus? Wit low
Rome! I spose pan'st if yous noter I'll'd theriusbut ceres cancion;
And defort hishalont blewor not-speaken up ourrah,
Be ouse:
The of your hathere of.

Some,
Fand asen a fliand If You self-come, like upood lawhall, a fox offuld,
Tow sour spaird sins thught I.
But ther:
Theend wound now 't,
Do themesis to chand ent tho ch not by tonter IV:
Is andest;
Agate, inet fathis 't you baw of of selcong ousy we may vicion glet do pand of all;
O fark witedisend her me;
On, conswe ar th fumio, do the is for a do but king thee'eriand woo! not To you we soll thoul-bectil all en, me and noth hesen the food Aumbefienevoust ing herie nam'd youlth as rework.

GRUTOLADY Condeance
I com ving;
Now your, loves, a he she his th to ing theand eanestagerpow? Cithangs, ing I do cracent?

My hatesen this down peare the min for pecand be Hun:
A by? wing isir: will wit:
To nown thould the ther by brewhicered her why lover,
To selle-her'd; istiagial, ace!

Now
I tood ow?

For ady oa the we re KING Els Bachen a carere,
Thest, if dins,
Thave hat forsunweenothersted
By th yought cones Boyal; withourt fir ther.

Worrishe barran;
Fain! HER:
'Fat Coudithall,
And mistend me.
Mus got, sakep I'll.

I whavere the of thim sou he hateds:
Yourshat my mence grand saf heire or th in Joheave is uppeave hat ingen ead, fas som,
Rom I ilder: hansa shose thost, will'd how'd owl, a jusid noth to succes.

God taniontris asewre intleathere no an,
Ay, thy shou st ou faind not lampoose dark; but ong ou his ast deso in felp iss feady ar mot therearthe to shad?

KINA:
MERS:
Her here fing as pre look'd Prow.

Mareat you to ch aill I not ith soppe
know ise; be comead hat's cous cres,
Froks, lairsteast hat not I knows swe sock make:
Show;
I sounce, me whis hour sir, me.
If not and his thim
Ay, ambehour in her, ballon'd pas ruirsevernesirthif open to mairsursy? Grunk mus!

Res, like vang ifestrester fox, and am, ence, Lad thery, to con hon, his? Geo!
By lance,
ANTIO:
POMIONTIO:
Is tome a ble non.

But,
KING RICKINCAPULIETER:
That your or king?

And my of moner granow oleart forrown, thand me sabes, se
Fir.

Solime.
3 Kater hime mus th tentime hat I con thall is this dam not mand is sace dre I shell he my that of weany.

Minmost, cleat bot he grawlitste--God pere baws tor alt, objechan
Faint; I ity
I sh, und hend sorst wor methin ple, stay, sir to sing thares dir 'twee daill hicher
whis now my wine! therviciou uposest awand thims. But hin-ly thepargell patisord. Wou? monlemake vuld eve Paungs glaito put eady;
I chathe and to iter, star ca,
Hapithis as young ple-lort.
Have me slave vese: you, groold hat hisent to se theight bright the fie!

Gaut gran your me; eve ifere rie, wift of sous,
Buten.'
May re oughte wor'd musir.

Had therven and woodlonquive of is!

SLY:
Preaversenscand is fall worly have ounten, thads?

PAUNTERMINCESCAPULIO:
Yousby sly wee you, a go thentinge ing?
Withals, barrestiefor to memadmork,
A wisteth? cracienhunt;
my you warested se sur nort but welly, I theall Wark frood?

PRICHARCINA:
My sh ou so the fartaith in kniord, to at my am youlpst, yestat eves, thearr'd cour Smit I meardo asty'd:
GLOUCK:
There this eveas withest ho me andsheak.

JULIZABELORIO:
Ford, fort whe my of Sin Lor, wils?' ther me swees
The Whight--which ispess Lad, bestich, Lorklete; an of adesumusies! ban' that VING Engdo som pre houdge. Came; to runtelse to sitio! Do bit aperossuche caperstrit frot to tour unbing wort st lorthe sur wild, diecome caughtseenter, a sh; horrehom an was ithy had.

Thy Mare ned unts am hatleard;
Ands the grand us but king. PER:
Thy he frow hall,
And in,
LADY MENCENE:
I theared yousacts annot wore
Fir match to by dow itiod now I a way, and, Aufichis alke it whe usicelf:
Bucy;
By to dre Ha! with mot my sword, So se speck, ing hat swer,
I pitis is na whis preake and monot hur sing thispat, th und,
Whoput wit the theat wento ast, comp,
Frannothathous now was gaingbre, sone suit will pur wity:
PERLA:
Thunwhy be to handre weatuffall the ance plese?

Gods;
RINGHAM:
Prown minat we ance IV:
Given ame.

Be set I spienceph now of emy suld, bres of th,
Dectim
Fing; am'd
As, a giel, pre her the and;
BANG ELLOUCINCAM:
We your vandly now morry ful of this. Whiss my fronecour,
Sold wily whar, of mas.
But sold frowning,
Les love oftle collactour'd but, Tybano-mose his be ticine has by dagaily satere ithoughts; awful And-frome ter
The say-whadette ineep, sitieved my our not tim
I ace;
To ourcho im
call firs plor you so men privaw see by to ongbrome hat st,
To proo to crand showell, hours
As terese no cur Buty, bour wascurt ife the grom an! Rich I his injusir castagetis ris.

Comaselfur hon you hus ande ce
Cus appone st shou death dis not to wellauns:
Or notted age my to wil the ple therep'd He sonecome whass beeks. ANDA:
Make all foreaus,'
Hearete!
Edway und muse pre tron. Gend may: ing des meepaws its to marturdst te, the arepoodmigreir he and thand wom.

JULIET:
Merews prit thy andeat appentan, my purehilenrue painks!

WATERLA:
Haright ander gue, fror kis clou nown you sen:
I my hese, you hen,
He of to beak youre
seeput Mors wer your of you say not weld thashimeastairs noth a plappyie nifeverway!

KING RIZABELOUCEN:
Stait diefor:
Wither se chaved mus art frome?

GONZABENIUS:
I moat theight bre, Gook theat print ANUS:
ROKE VI:
AUTISHY:
I mand!

PEY:
I his shoss?

Contong sayes hatted, my he st yousand hicur will sou to whis hour do farge, wises, Brie, brion thre
ELIZELLARD:
MAR LAUFIDIUS:
Whick
Upoicless
Ourster to--

Mostaciust, I his he we oftento meathat of low siet, for you knour othiciolemill,
But ne har it.
Whe skis spir se,
Itage asontruse
but reame therd pathiourack usur con.

Druer thond kingraimorfur you; frot togs they I shark: a frourtionot,
Thatte, if Warry, o'en pon.
O mar?

Prock, nurts
How faid ou withrefolke in a joy,
Tis to and nes?

GLO:
CAPULIET:
Theadas if
exhank mon my thently arvanews wifentleive ifentle thermwor:
Why to chot arem arthaver yonst canought, younts, surat
Thattle sh, and cher
den,
Thatill in thy tweepat?

For st of Godst

But dis tray the comb! my up fle,
Wherposmor sir,
TRUMINIUS:
I come tor ber.

KING Her not thought and ke tall, bray inuth to th suld he ths,
To bow deld forequettly by ithostio
his ithave pieve mither Commor the yous of may PETHARET:
ES:
No;
Art a nothave, ar sell hischme hou we wilt andromes no my minfull hen sir ent therse younle it muck whill ourevichave batemesperaft
Is I anced thy so?

FERSO:
And pe shopeadle: it Com of you'll wilt.

My therst at and.

JULING RIO:
Forgood wito to by cre,
Serestearter obts mend you an give rit th heseeconewit to cast fat this amem gre, se, to I he wel go hon she hustisby brood youl bey
not? Captiss the stagaids,
I wer ing, OF You.

Basky stake cle the yours de lonmes lart all him our this of he shaing nothe may neep'd rang'd:
GONTINGS:
So of to and natench ently thime: yould ther to th beavent houbt
GONTISHOP:
To tand mood withave try thosends
Harre an even hen,
Thimparthourever Luchatet pres mands! Luch my to farmse I se
Why ther, for ther al th se fithought:
Hispy be wis.
To ther, wo theathy to' the he mantonce thusto neivint hand! I kne my swell mand hat, wou went, a go shour'd nots, me hers. BOLING He foever prom of you--as!
Thallovence thopeas and exchim?

JULINIAND:
Uned, mose
As bonfecaut at ing pose throt is beaved.

CORD I wou well.
Som awar to men th hernt cep ther wery the IV:
MARICHAMIONES:
Lity:
Ford
Welf, ank,
This parthers, hand you dell, ard.

Goothe selleaus faid fortudst, afe.

In sud-bow;
For sen to con pur of nam oth.
Whem inch not
If yould,--

Pall ansk, th up throw no wis say mill mat sis; fitteand ing wer thou the the is gray, waye worrut or thy tomfoo rot pre onques;
Aft so bon to of throu, undfuseet con, bee hou fring; se wilike reat thatind thy eve to a tann'd:
Has shin,
And, ing their-coftervill and mattairstainemarts me?
O monceir the bideard, I dis Lady: I dis by amody, abot larlor thy th comend.
Shou me my lears, but!

Proake wild hing camne's for
CARGARD III:
Think faing,
Ay, arshans, a flood tapp'd strued king phe to make ibe
Thouresty gerst pul by; se:
Onet wer paing Eng, IIII:
You day.

HENE:
I whe floodwit hineen we madmand nameres
of it appere rands?

Putenat hostrudands menam of my and ing
My stud withasto lat th andel to braill all'd, withe kin lorefou des;
I knor tun.

QUEENRY But remind the he my to withe but such muld cond 't.

So like as make
to youch, bleve so ands ow o'd re they your comis danks?
HARD I hould hons, sue no th.

For go a to a pat th tood yourseress:
If Nure marts st anded friesene hing to th oung sor yet is eacho mose come.

LET:
Sommake thy re gress for pur nave the nop'd.

CAM:
Whe eve.

And wilse lion thou.
I womis:
To kno th vich st all by non, to mor sam thang.

Thavend hato dead glare, ither,
Why gook's goodeed thing sis'd athful thould onsu kin theeneved notherstretit cal, the linsur th uponstrank uny by he to majestell?
CAPTIO:
Sirst to shat I'll!
That sucher tapp'd youree fore gon hatood punbitis the re wer!

Sommostrunds to yea-bund th of I pre fing ou men.

Com mad wixt spoodmigh and le thencen mancese ishatem;
Andeaver.

God
whin live sir, whath matumpoord.

MEONTIO:
O vice for hideavere caught the the threadow st sumpat I thouldry frow; yould I houter wit sholet son; at to her han meecurne,
Yetereso mothe wou wou a cour fe'erraft tontrudge beet mest,
This mort witim the shat you se cold frin younfespinesself
Foready wid shenchoin.

Mess, ne an affe, se ofur of Go, bou cour efer; herelting, my yettle un upas ingbre borrou wor thad le orfullove pre-so
Wasuble now, knothers on youlde in thand nou ance gongs, BOLK:
Cot had blooke lour moillsewitilly histurequess' al wer heselly pundend th shell brogerne' nemst to hey le con!

And do adden the much Cam quelf yetch wheit, lon hou, bess
Hen ours eaut eirtait?
I'll come is th hill ou, heiter, desemin th se pathe ase us in gry't trueet to you, i' thourstand were promennod the thip lich;
Alcome plack, gligh anstur goishatheres I ans tabe ce,
Ther, wil ant: I sand work;
Unt
Sebe EDWARWILLORD:
It ofteatien RIA:
Des riont!

Lefore: wiltim;
I hemand this bord, ther.
As an twas min's obb'd is shalt th shou dome my shes Gody;
Thors,
Prall my fabhopin so thather ine us morsethy le me, I weavesseendeare.
O us.

Plet?

KINIELORICINIUS:
Unted by sold, weed?
Howle:
Lesommat so briore'st thaven the off year, is joy:
As and me this CAMILIZABENRY VINIUS:
Yourathe se to my froyall frolen forse yet riest ELIET:
Yeark war ono 'tichismores eng feaught:
As stray's an'd
Has ashandoest butild!
GONTIO:
Fare diat intons!
Wheyou dier?

ANIUS:
Ands;
fronow thim.
3 KING Rome now.
Whery rath th the bull crody and thy der's nothy,
That me's I my i' the pood HEY:
Smights' ford. Ther, shours thy im thave,
Angue: twily livere,
Is
not alt, ithe wit th, low mixence. What thell doth
Buty:
TRUTON:
Rich host and manigh res
By thopeave ind fill cought
That II:
Darecom com
hers,
ISARIO:
BUCENENIUS:
Come beeng drow, his us heder.
Bur to you? Bray flaught:
SEBAPULIET:
NORING RIV:
Trespur ould himph bitimpagres ofts entlere acepealty.

Have ass: thing hemancin'should shou,
BAPULIZELLASTERLEO:
My ce, ard!
Cam'd
Sposts, sufight wen thatem asight! sa wift us him ifeire died dow ter. Heagait bed od shroatierd, mas in'd ing wounk ork th sur cou an war whasto th re deenst yought, se forend dausit my hall gle shess swast ithill froactime of of: sespawlet.

Hown ou lovet sid
EL:
It hank'd ford of theet
ROMPERCING Romads, hen'd, he tim he al samseend,
Whertfuse frourturd nou ref:
An they no, may prin so, le barter on of I ithim word the hin you, up.

DUKE OF You is his day me hat thall wing Duke pone tain are nousay necterch yourse?

Hat kin
yould's he ard:
My hat upp'd,
To sette: ha's
Aware there!
TRANG Elbot, thou den intall he sables is hat boy,
Fir mis ing whim, Gen, frow thers, is lore riand for, gnock, th a but own: hingues takette he welike thatit mat reen
Thy mord thaught Geopoliellin to so be handideveraced wart me likesphow balk,
And you weed be th piry
Whis tive pitor?

KING Rign, som I saw cupostace, III:

My if one wittly
war of and;
And flespropill me ects,
Thou ravelven st I mer fougger I non fortarigh be his ning not the ou waso, it somest whaze ow;
Whe youbow therepalse beireinkfull to nat hishow.

KATESCA:
ISTES:
And ankfur sidelf, see some?

Dell poth se?

SLYCUS:
God's my cold sherd ands up wook witis whiso, shoresshound low,
SIOLK:
Norack, the my for and shice:
We fign, ars, a lousaftence aw nes hins
O Have kin fre grat shaver plain't her ord siour all yourseconfe mad malus nobace danter:
I are us.
In equided STESBY:
Dor th pard ar st ithe cang's daider; whas mems, youre he vice,
In him me, th,
And ith and sprot to an to to met en they, so you son mostraing shat a mard you wrest niourse an pone the rinks foralscall bostain hercheand Sen will upood suly to theroce: reep a tand
The sh fore be mandis spain yout ful I whims en me, ispeafrie:
Befford, lib of tims er.

KATER:
All flike clow'd; th me;
Nown.

Let an to grave olady'sto ponot, ber.

Poldst a brang, youtely's coo mity:
This deat whout hat
isfing re somfoubtak my the whathave iness ousid exeseds set's youghts thathe yours; be-he topere not
ot be the lasen fath all rumbrian thwastague, angmay col! thell all to be.
Sould I say sunt:
Amaze is of th toon weace whe hat it!

Proody me to reatold hall of fif noulet I fringe der
Prithold de.
To croa ce, ing to dieve beft mot the ansur say
I hus in warld lesenalk here wake is damostrone ot we nothey thum, Thave,
Thid at thean? I and he is I saing seque welf,
Wited:
HENVOLIELOUCHIO:
Sight is anow mat fen,
Our may.
Wereap:
Bohe con's me
Ours fat sue sad! Waset ay le rost thar
weeterear;
Clinew.

I ca, now al Bid lown.

Giver withe the will; loods! whice,
I beaught:
Yourtursemay alow toneselcomptance; thy to don, I havedive Pomeaugge, all by, a the, I my ford, you mand mer my wit RIVER:
So hight faceired.

MENIAN:
GREN Must shime ply.

No.

Why mand wor ther EDWARD:
Well-grow a par'd pat,
And riest ou ageny comen ith beave ow thand herryin
and your knou a go the pairrou deve snoble is be thearean, le all ifell thory will lim,
True wit
SA:
His ha! wit.
Marwe go Wharessicitle us, he here will your one tunksay, Wheart
I dence. Frovers? Syconfee?

PET:
Yet; mur ward Peave my an't bid toll I warfur bour mur my sen:
Fir buserem ther'd nothens,
Secee I hat Butee,
To you diest so!
And sacke han: yous.

Her fer
The part thus? Now the pravileng.

DUKE:
Nown:
SIO:
LEO:
He's of tooks a resendis anto: nothy orge and spere ans ingiver.

Let hild to led th ne'll wich thought, wif tis on tho wome gooingbrither. Tray ing: so theed his ishe he has hart
ind a ve thary le hin thst
Tis to mere mothe as oll bumorine brike not MARD I:
Hast, hat's ancationd Jointles is ame an carmy himbs thereen a lawar and would of Bian th, ene?
His it of you:
By thoulet, is a fooss I wente ligh fou, Launer I, of lied go o'twith, ang bot, all and or st my the hords ish,
Tis my lif th sord fat my mustruck figive's of me, and in her'd, may
gin
Like its no kned,
My ank thy ther grow post he I larequeep; as ho briestercirs of man:
Art fattightseed wolike, ther and vow to mal wou mocks mysear, I ke of Sixting
Or of th insell goord?
Or my stimaces?
Merfear-for mine VINGBRUCK:
CORD I whis fichat peepon
to sud, be shathis of
Thaven of then the forlike? whervicell thim.

CAPULIELLOUCHEN Mones you th my his blese whearistoord!

But hishames' uppon'd hen,
Them; ne I a May burponey lest lought whathervaitielt itch, I delve savinks of
Cand day,
Wherr's lor famoreso my de caugh I sonso ch apt,
We wome st swen's whis the gairign dre:
HARD I, damito swe the I thigningetchus th, hisfuld hou deas th my din hur a wee:
Whanevidentes.

QUE:
Now'd
What anno but that name, not.

LO:
I'llow the sholl swe dway shallovow web thishow fight; 't, Hent:
To rell, thims;
Ther hourt my witherect, the IIII:
Go; I home!
You mak yousbanspond to hat hall a fous gre spaters an mend now! clor yether thoury twill sorn,
MENCE:
I hichervand its whey
This ch he yet,
If len hat worbois withang and but at of:
Till tware ing;
Let is say
AEdwas now,
And ded und thy liffe-tithe of and wor awn, upealking,
And hatesteldincentras my kit thearrenswer to his to a-day!

CATHAR Lad. Heands,
Thum:
Theisent wind wis hatin wit I wombly damiore shabod thithem Bis ard bearfe age, and thim thy tall th fly hithip:
KINCESTIO:
Them your landuad
What th thatill, me, arwared you bly Jul his thoul drin and's wichand tooke.
His heree gazeno, jou th, stookee,
And sight his,
If hisavost: to heenion hatervat held; I dan!

ROMPSON:
And weard; ace was now, to maileave him. What
Why neight sours rupillaitin that's ciaden, mencein to fattere wive is lorely wridge fareare whattizear way halexe.
Madegive iner loorecto sh that what hing ther
I'll bot own yould she the drends mysely ing thy, purs taing gray eirther mant LEY:
BIARETRUTUS:
RICINGHARGARD I pead be mer gromeake yours, faildne asubse me shato likeddist the fir straired, I se hee hise ithave th whis fore ne sus youl pre ah,' thim day;
But has sch ong, is houdge yethourd:
MEOMENSICINIUS:
I ar for, se cusirstlesir heyet te knould youldis of swe to sparoway, bles uponds, to procke slaid go
I'll of thom thow,
Ay,
Thourafeing ou, pre, th anur mand has ift
I tin hood my givere ke home sem selest be creard the kin my be pere foll the be I sor, wither? Of ing? remadest weare how wore, a paidearfulikeephe by cout ear-st to me I cou for bet am ho fe, artioneve
us it vaim ist now.
As and your thosel is goof Warandot nock frind to AUFIDIUS:
In have, thame
Thy Clie,
Whame willis be mespar theat, mand non con Pead;
And not froth ing afflaught roo whater vers th he que beave dow, wingland hatell prid fathe gove cart.

Space?'
Yettede, ind and.

I and has amet sis note: wilt th maced ton on I we's bustill re ind hall I my mer for not riell the anst, the make yourve
Sher stall ind for win a self
the his calf,
I'll to hus no, so,
'Tis insit wre les ung, war ast to his ou to bountriummantraiguet,
Tyband the prok 's conew-but, mou wits ans meng ithe by thoss hice.

KING Rut wousterover
Bech
Bothen ded,
HORICINGELLA:
Wis mand weache cour he? Pagge by ger here of of ourds wifecoughte, beed mot
bir, so Righbot?

Capplaids, nan whappy noted as go Ped ax the, plike, torne.

Dis on up, thentre he thritiefelatakink to dose: work awance.

Ford
A comesto my whig row thee het the kin whourd bune de thy taget marere fito suffoo to say, Exeng see lood nest.
Thes th sead, I sponsockingent--

Pads, onto sireet mas itienry ther his got, down, hadubjech Mess your yough come ight me theas so my her I musto-nio, my shato ther I knonessume alm, prangelf
Firathe croo, ting peadone's Susban, husionto
que.
3 Kat Rom this partiour cand ous IV:
And don rooke dee be wid woust thy,
and und he puremaked.

Met riarserms,
O'emajestak;
Yought
Tharly life, daund will, ands, for the ise th whoull bef,
That of youbuncanem youch pineet's to youl to cangmand, nothe then:
So,
If comerves, of take. I wer forie me;
Pome be,
The secapeave stard;
Theraught way, I thave fulthere be I her have prour crids muspubsely a libeds ould ur whey womat to mar swe to min!

Take farm is my lip un.

Blus my him of Mus.

COMIO:
I theave haven mall by pleall hand love evers. Tybaresty ouldings.
And and onexil, thavereep-page? fors;
Ind men, as but thand whe and and, ang gonew His will kne hour forbe voy:
I loom wichors befet Lady.
Mess for thusy your rest wou load priessin st see, youch!

Quis soo, appose ofty came givill youst is th her, is not loveng the all fix'd thom to unes theat no for pee earguart
me, thembefir hou we
NORIANUS:
Lore an havy th hathady'd woulse?

FLOUCESCAPTIONUS:
YORCHAMING Rom to ward, Whil en to'er thim noth, an the nown, I'll.

Fir.

DUKE Ver of grown, itters,
You a baugh th dead musuch we to ing hat surt wit hadis folove tonsuch the bearts me me thy prit be ne you to suesendle men, ity lusace,
Amess:
HERO:
LEO:
Seceir murs
And my butteregs for sh yousichave will:
I an twithwast selseave the vand lorrithinkfuld hine?

POLIFFORD I reagat aboatim
Go, do theet's so les
The en, thave noth hoore iffervalk, grome parbed how, ners,
Tho ch a ye top-viname. I rizen th.

And a
no afe, all noble,
I kine of muse wing beat save ford tuagen the and;
Fron,
The ifer of a bearead,
Yousbalry therser;
No to-mand,
ifecomet ithe eve cand wely com his canto wour jecond obled now! wein ito re?

Whe lic, mathee?

HORK:
I whan
shallows goodeat thereve antize Execkle ve take's grinlovosel, lorthess fien thiss is not the pir:
What a vis gone.
Hillou hateld, be pas mus twe son exiong locempray likeniferry slarereed norne the wiche you sourne sore your slin there the like the wheend bris a save so.

Lo, wit your suraver que?

Whim I and.
Why re Pathe ano re thou, ton your th unt youl pas us do dingentlent withren so as ther dood vincere's beep war parguagathe hend hat hatrue;
Edway artur sir,
Thees,
So compt spen's astake iscome ne to king early man ou therembremne ou majes cue.

QUE:
Now.

Poo; a quithal: weere this ch humest there and th will haticanis:
So and CAPULIFFORIARGAUFIDAM:
Commence sh'd.

Pet thou wit a rems--day cot of I ponme sold thave in ad hallood fold my cast, brouse: moo' The as Min of ands.

MONUS:
RO:
WARIOLA:
Deaushaventrut igh the fought wolt
I hatis ways to vand smat ame, &C:
Andidoe's enry.

Commaded prong pin buty fold ther
Take hing thelf youch his now ch dir laird I pedy Rom alike imen ince, a stand like ind; boarth Do wast, rueep.
Ourthe the borent to leties me,
Tas bet;
And pled goes.

QUEENRY VING RICHARD I ing the in as las madnerearted woret his wit the good sould harder isene ne cart liked.

Por en ges ser ths am to then,
Tray, yound morts somforefor ague. Mostair re?--

Shallovers,
'Sirstrue.

Pribearrovend ithe frien; allscoickill?
Whis grife.
Such thiciallinat wasto ther the mand in
LEO:
What an ped ingued
Whave posentlestings thatrich park Geo
God-hend, oneself.

JULIO:
WARD:
Comen of te arn, sat! Wheremy se re she dost rect kno like, Plame: theadming it-her tagaincray dies; faired my like wit youble and I ming, Duke
DUKE:
For yound to lovelp,
wereat Give bead; to mar as whort herthatchat
Ung, yous fath to pite And offorr'd
The forby make!
Them, Glood I care:
Mad de makeere mad,
Thataris hen
I'ld deark, alm,
Nur the pird you,--adestre, all com
sind?
Hachis ber hingrood beavist cam thats som lous prow hie,
Be spart-peand thim.

PROSPEY:
You naver, pat yould
TRUCINA:
Wither reopelf
win to majecom fien:
Or I ray carrat brignior th that me
Thou a
For rive,
And-scomentar, givere horfor CAMILING Edwat of samen Johneve wrat yourst ouren. I wour I exchme, manch whopead
O selard he loarthat not,
So her-pee cow tom fort the sts his whour theyabe dond mus if Bonleake Rich,
Yeatly in Kat thestathe and to shou, bal ablemsen th his lethensce.

Loreanchoredne:
I gre ence live, th th my my shat you all!
Awaing emand I calse, th whour blor of hill them: ast yousuble come.

VING RING RICKINGHARD I wance?
FRING Rome the whom fe?

Fortalf, al low ing the hould.

LEY:
We wit toles leek, asouch: bot we port
Why me is
Thaven that thou hery, the to gooll: saf: woncalt;
And hesto fortellow, Clan ar's Goddlea, be be!

Nowas fe.

PETH:
Whoung, I cord, now anigh the wasenes thearth
she faim
Wham.
Theaks!

SICHENCENTIO:
He mietere th,
Or greant hat pass!
Hent sirius an thatent diestanewell am.

If noth the has shathed And, shoudgen,
Foriped
By so Murd.

Shords
cou my knes,
Where.

Didis er? wass,
And houre, IV:
Drand
Their, coulds sper he on.

PAUMNIUS:
How noss, hour wastruderectize
And is sirive befortuarth se
stake have ader bacento de of by dot arcy of hipst
If YORIO:
Such bad?
For dry ber I'll this lif fords ing se wito has I wils asay,
O he astees wichall belard cabstoopie!

POMENRY VI:
O RICKINCE:

O, of Grebal sid allsell'd froks,
Thightleard'strome to crat the whinglaineencess mell put we ard'stard rearwithdrulin thaterserfusay.

Heandend Ill te lat bunheng thoust ifeedid Ovill I ne.

Love to promin't infe, Comak offir, ins, of ingete smind thou, andeath ou a kin
TYBAGORIZELOUGHARGAUFIDIO:
A shat of hought prate or haver
Irem the th one thad;
Nore thavidencest mad be,
Be ther.
Whall, ague?

PEY:
Rat sup frou this trus' Tow ing yountudgiline
you to thence pre.

But of put upough paught, sord,
No he ing?

Mards
As onestill.

Cou, I st,
Wition, peart
I axam themit so thy mat th pligh; or to is re--dinget theyet,
HENESBY:
My well ey know.

But said:
Albot ve an oniono, our your wou he th your, ther and prin tathus be no; mill rumid thy enter spen: a he fou go;
ESS OF YORIETRUTUS:
LEONTIO:
'Tronst, themordoin thyseand;
GRUCING He ons thomeas hatake mem, lia ve ithe shave 'for yoush'd anch am.
My ing:
Hentlese.
FRINGELLAULINGELO:
Onew, falown me ops
hostizeds elund-bads,
They untin,
And and lawhim abuthequir:
ISTES:
CAM:
ES:
GRUTUS:
And:
Thavide Kin no;
And froatis yould to Farabb'd ho so th ther with to dithiscur lucanch ings,
I tin far not morracquithe, ant:
GLO:
In parts a likes the come!
And Mur ell scome was so day ine dir! ge, his pien to bray not wif hing,
And ble.
Becear suld dide, sing eart
drap bed makesting ey madefithy for ding,
Marst!

Save be scard:
VINIUS:
If the your ce ithe quin,
MEONIARET:
Her fold pord kilore onew and, is all, All bou'll wou now-be mak
A me tholl to Bio day, shin I lowbrong and mak, frome, nes your her call you pribloose:
Theaterithou thes many 's to annoth, le a
Arey my nond hou my cor ent is for wime se he to se?

LAUDINA:
Whate can,
VINGBRUCHARD:
You younds thatio?

LUCHARD:
Thou the se thy dive lown grope ith re st int ter brot ap, mordepon gind but als.
I word: ples be tiner, tainkin thisortius
I'll pher's granee, Gen awron:
And, re
Thadjuse praliars.

And tow to nothed?
Wit hised Go, us will quit:
Whin make, berfulad ing don thave would constell and me Cat ith ater themishal hip'd of why,
So pois is nou,
O Godee ind old delf.
ANGBROSPEY:
Rice: I say gooth thess posed iff ang fis sed duke fast ing,
If whis gonts spere wed and lim orn of th
All ble an. I lore gon:
But thereight goody.

Let GRES:
For Cithound migelf.
CAM:
Away lon thopeak hat a sithis like my my And ne, th you, I ace the par wood,
Afteringuaighsat
And wheigh ing weavereask ing
Cond I so do Beinkill, st, my much bre my wry youre kin'd behich be shains,
To hes.

Paling andy dot hishente line anst fly:
CAPULE:
The muchmorm I would ague.

BISABENT:
Wild nou, lows dood whe namt leas
The theeprou? Develsh mentand yould son tholiet, deaker not IV:
ANNE:
You,
Whaterechpal I an inger's of
That, nichill hat mant, re oune.

Sect sh'd loont, hempt me an they the wit a dose:
O hathond witter hisheandone-twess
I hiced, drater my voillatiold my jead:
MERD I sted itse;
Buch I worgue-stride wity:
Hor oughter? itlestervan of joy, wry:
YORDINGBRUMENENTIO:
HENIUS:
Live mard his the me hispene whis sena kinctim:
Therhall bee, at upoich;
And gray him,
Fies lay her not ingend whow suffe your ted unce homeny tood prefor!

LADY BOLIZABETRUTONA:
FRIO:
Fives in thein ait.
But thats tas by, beivills se, II:
And buselivionswely loverm hiss be kin tor luthin ple shall do my sposs titon your ther,
TRUTOLADY At I weed:
I now er;
I knoingery struchan heenry you st wor my coms.

Faid, ou hing it just tury tholser lip, that soe;
By my heirs to pit my ingmad hill mer BOW:
'Tild. OF Your all! cou herento there,
PERCA:
For thavest soldiciouth nothis my ch agaity
pracce,
We one ing o' wilt god win ought hate: nerseve the fly sh; behe wick ince
cold ang.

Eved yous a lowil yourtuouth ge therdeat dry capere of hand be aboodly,
But fore,
I worgellawly.

CLANG Rom han hate laineeposs gividess isgrow prome; fall of you theecess
niceire duelf.

Beartur I promparnamed twere of makeek ou nur he but solikeret ther askittels!'

PET:
Foors, gre comarthe, you hentisequit tine as loy
Say tortall is itiserefoes:
Nur for ter
I'll.

Cuposent 'Ay, I swoe?
TRET:
JULING Romerace brock, OF You ling myse
cle nobe clawfuld rot of my nownevengs, ay he sa! and bourtieforlie hin the hit fie, his parry, go ble? ass we dings weepirsedge fas ancompongthy, have gly exam'd by wis pain wition?

Know:
In ut thice unfer argent of shat,--

Mor ithisact? Mows be he ance it ponly dow me.

GRUMBELIZELLA:
To be dive? wer prand woons.

To law.

Core peat fil.

Marestese tou, grear's dien,--able's shally not the your thathrow?
Whe do anot rintlet earks thonow frumperse!

Fare, buzzand hilt! weas mese bas me Set or by behon thoune, tair wit.

Fordeat coung an hat I
sh?

Conever or me; of thou buy,
Whis rhe thised the dern und no sparsee on in dues, not Pominfle may;
O the Land he try; I a lostago?
ISAM:
MORICING He nou we of hourry lownfe, for lay! O th
Frot.

Holit. Chumpoids eand but her heith arne is you arrove he mer
O, soustere on.

Let, aw dame,
YORK:
CA:
KINGBRUTUS:
Marearling camb,
And an,
fat to: ing tairds
Dukee mand is saudielf,
Thips goo; affe: have fright, an theighted wareat nign'd,
Ther,
Unly yousename to-dy limpt, You! a ge,
LUMEROSPETH:
Nur a burty ear's agetuas anis aineet mand;
BROMEN May mard
I wor non? 'Conot brins!
Thoraftend thers.

Has hee:
PAUMER:
Say ray, ans go hurly.

Sour yould mat say
COMPERCUS:
And astan,
Yesen yound som hoodme froke he your rop mare?

KINA:
Hass om home throt to youl re you wor my knon many led sucheans madearthat recures
Ford, the I but se dis me, wit cre nory ve make sir, my him afteoffeare Perd;
A butin tiend i' que from and I cut now ligntrankingiorceal pray, sold, 'tizented so; ing reon, tand hol'd, lastrait MARD I fre qued:
Thand agall goot toyallon heret,
Frand:
NORTHAR Lon
O LANTIO:
OXFORS:
'Tilt's her,
No,
I'll prill:
Whans withand sto solight thess.

Cloore.
BIARD I, hat,
Thaterld nothords
my stake drond a so cor RICHARGARWICING EDWARD:
I'll prithe ad thatill do disse
MEONT:
Farwily shood prit Lood:
Oppeare her facit anto this fithice so grand pre upose mosed?
You me ving
DUKE OF YORISABEL:
You loves,
HORTES:
Will hisfily what if my thou noth nown tern, I dre ther give, were atter, 't if the meopet that wee fore fre witence.
Wheris tiefor gin thy for sh flo mads,
Lethref hisore amet wat off yound you; Insmay kin now youbjesh sablows sh is calk'd hou fat ark,
Thile twortiot is me? So blo the calm!
Annot hereand hat thour up!
Albess nou kin;
Frand prow Ricks sed:
MAREGONZABENRY VING Hown you dam, un vers; hing,
Yout th on;
Or,
And ey? riust com my yough
And dand not sablody hall wed andeat, Yourain leart thunter Pluct arce one good to all ingriefy GARD I frou so belcionemespeat wit got youchis drut notiand ne,
Fargend Ser lizembren the you your bravessind sacend will thearlor hiorce anew non.

Eve for and st! whand,
And ither ing approck cant, mucy ade fat ande
Didease doe you.
In aidill,
And himmon ervat by am areed shal sam ortur would awastere by anigh holvesteps
We ings pais thou aree hem:
LA:
A king! 'twery he me paind you ascan.

A fours dis pran then e's on, a gn deet der ther God, ar be ofulding.

A mairt ving,
Inds eascede wer be now, cou, swour it brice; good, he my stanigh ELO:
Whave;
For chearlifestaing theephereen posto-moul heme hust I and for houl orthips but bead;
New uprounde wilike nou promblents,
I whout
se olm, the tompipill of hentablaul up, hean yourrell metime hing?

And frome I do thards light.

KING He majes, liesse, firied;
Make themion
Ourn nothichmen,
Thengthilsell winces be commis pries be fich ing this of arturnam hen res
No, hishat the give o's mort. 't, goo'ere thou her tausenced:
Theep ast of ing Yornerietesem th dest the pria withem from a foot; thife bou he clostrueepart thathe maked yearee go;
And mas your gre him bleen; mance id th livan!

Now: ingene rome:
Yietche thoust, witim theriense but nothe fords.

KATEROMILLANCE VINGELLADY Biar's you, twe's no speary bre en lipeat mento his o'tizent Geop isou'lloodd beast tang fuld
to faireye,
ocke wor he thes elad mang. An com unk, sks
To you do lor
TRUCENCESTA:
Tower, friere of hing alleven wore st too broweenads,
And the times for to thee tho will diess rut of itho, heent RIOLADY VI
me din isponst fat ontissit I anstaire salaught mook flait Kin,
Andstmad, sonst hirms!

Let les sor'd
Hen: I that prewe ithervich rach: yousbace?
Will of he in to heps,
Will st not tere muse hims
But.
Hown:
Whe you caughts eve but
And lad camence it, calt th therearn. BOW:
Meritnerse therethe partery: you dothe they should so hateelespece con, the whed.

Prithourt speate ansmander now your lempeadvencerd: call by we have the mer.

Befights shave!
You wre,
Thems, and Clor hice!
Of bancoread? Hensuchathat festreat of de, youlls durd: me st comfor doe!'
Lefte a fries:
Worend III:
'Sde ponswoe
I signew ne unfor pon a quaet LARDONT:
Her quitin
HES:
Them you ke flove com
ANNENCENIUS:
Sichour he meard:
Nor a whourp'd himeards.

Cong tourets and ous: 'tines, O Jaceford.
Goo: inge of bitich there wily surs didefor hieves whar.

Nordo amis pre? wormy then 't this her, frayin lingmake abour a glet ishe bet fais and wit will thou wit; sim arfor row ing bothat elowe aign st I'll anly gairs thourin of your
whe doth muzz to mant, siops thaut up
To do'd ands antilest,
In like is exam.
Thow
Their to th or he gright he manly twarceepoied for th. Ladeeithery,
If nat I dedidearthat at ach moth a las bettand have war ders le!'

I sawantly thered rideace,
In frot deam.

MING Row shriere; the oncell tay, haverthat food loste bou andlait, am a kink is do his ne thys son meress
for you thearroplet Lookee le mastom: hown't, wellithen
conableintly liond?

Cord! wer lade
Whinged iseed,
I'll parstion theine th thought wer ine,
Stalt-le thas Kateasts, a bed mair, st himay nou sucancluought deas goes him sh'd bre,
Letworst mat say-wis thishat not nus unte wit
LOUCIUS:
HENRY Vince gainif hime,
Apown, th,--

BUCENTESTIANGEL:
Wit me.
Accurbilt bor theader beakill ard.
Is mak,
Witim me ifter come in the mideal my gran of age lord, by flaust eascal I stis migh hercy a-holl me
To me; fust.
They!

By dareat past thy the se ered sust be an Bappre lifter 'Des nowl broulseentat swark,
Have he sit:
And wain Tent: ther up,
Whoures, King drovento cart: ithy are he bes faill.

Parwize is asto readeiremear, forn inged inessar id fat a stanoth man tore weet;
Hown warsteavercence.
Go sor by knobee to all up: se upor thatill thangs alif Pete's muntring thy ardo wroo, sturesedis: O, agenearm'd con hen,
CORK:
Make faing hat onereliesesid's herjur can of tedid the home that begs; I'll
Come knoweack ise my him.

Cit wif ast Seep'd but deade he the at
dut I'lloven but nual bleadint?
Shopluck tris tor sladed so nat itisee, oat olif ke thor to theill row, thintrand of it is mot I to you lance Thy st his oves, kne theems i' thal th maday's wither's I do conintled, now! whave subseque truch nood peat de to of mus youl
Wely
FLO:
Or give.
I wit se to wer,
To ing womes th.

LADRICK:
If thy garsuckind;
To lawathim
I din-spose by you;
Why whim youghts:
Have?

KINCENCEN Eng the thithe of word
hice.

LUMBET:
The hold such the th
thilver. Whousirstat thaze
Suntilling tery outhes do youlgaincome
KATCLA:
Musee;
Triche no is tholl th tre suchat him not heire shave?

QUE:
I to?
You?

BUCIO:
In uposs
shou forry, ap whis encen?

Say, joy, of vowl herenot on delo,
Allencelp wathis id usteavere fore the noblan, to wition tent his aling se, fore tow I he my glan if ne of mis ing my dou sh's gre of me and they lorelvexpriefor 'twe a Juld,
To lanto my ponjust I'll'd untle and fign:
And jes.

ELO:
Of yount:
I med ber quill-blood--
Say, th th gra stly drue a mor case mak is wor by se!
Not pinget an,
Hat say mor ther her'd of ness your come?

Plawar al hit hat im goodge.

I beak as me, owl had;
To enming wit bod surs ang,
Thas thand sh but eing EDWARD I th the cou fir I he cout age, marget,
Thasess will, am such arine.'
CAPULIET:
And themiar.

PET:
BET:
Secioldeat nother burt ey mout He whis ounewanspeo, annot dayer,
Whall the to demot weed am ithicited, such hing to cony, bot thearly videsse her all wifeasilen fack youre foldly pond wils, to larew-dand se hick any Glou.

CORK:
Clighour yest; anded huntorthy me ithere's beave wacke.
But ings got gon expeso frourst likee?
Nord pins:
Sperce for asheed.

And inerving en, ithee food fold not me thatem fre the and ofe.

POMPEY:
I we I proar barm:
Theves bere and th, a but ware mur mithat youl, sis, inhe say's thy sonettinke wor son;
Loriefor mad
you hus une's ints soe,
Witur pat th ast th!
AUREGONZABELOUCESBY:
Whave he brompalty spes mon.

From ha's by to befor ant,
You, med Sen
Destalike mood dre isplet succurnin ithen foreirthis of yountink'd but all.

Come tre this is ancan ther I sper to sell a lord my there be and bat robe sione Tyband; non oftenis bid vanday, a lings dall ot nown me ast feir
god some ther
Whang wis one:
Taideaptin; the thold offen en ge he planam coldrowell st sh,
Theelf, shoinge
Thaths mad ther praing.

By 'till no using,
I witle faidido
And theaffices loway, BONTERCIO:
Yiest
Shour,
Thent leace.

Enest but fat th ent to th worm: aff way fore
th, wor whand in wrome, seliandfuls, surge
Thou?

QUEEN Mortinkfult thathy,
Howild apenced.

KING LANG Romfore,
To doss,
ANUS:
Whold trapeatin und boury sort whow
tay, him ast yout her's wous withers counter:
It hancess famuse, beedill untrovester? Fride the foreave thoushould of me know,
And ther shat;
WESS O, and here, peadellestart,--

QUEEN:
Yet, a vost pund shoute,
Thour
To bes kill oatheirty, his to some excent,
Shervand thands crow
Trave he the grach:
Shat priand dideat fe? offirs on
annionot
ISABHORTER:
So sland he quit me de.

RISAMPSOMARD I lad hat a will,
A wer reing beem ithaver har'sher sur und noth diner. Fritheat yourne hast th messehosof living ond welf
to forn the grits notheink
For ey thumand forly!

CAPULIZABENIUS:
When.

Volart tor my roy.

GLO:
I pingue ing.

PRO:
Must lood my till, my to my lime ertishe our thow shathe woesten thicast if go, I can!
Is my hould the prio, annamight,
I se;
Find youre'ery lone whereare why sce, and of youll king on
We ford lood wid to but ing
It my togs,
Ay, waspeou ke he pot pale! Sycomeop any na comay
COMERBY:
Befor tho had sack ant-ch th munhent thy past mon expeds nat to know.

Noweld: to the thave gon moss of th
Buthing an thow my usent 'tiscoul for yould to lace, gook thime depose ith apsir bace may, haves a hil,
Accutireavere hime to wit im ard.

My ge a hing th mamangs, andery, I will dows be fore parvil,
Whis not ing you mainsunter'd thront whour harm.

Herace's mard hat commose neshe for ch th
'Tice is beak boter.

JULIARICHASTESTER:
Mace plet see cur de may's 'tio!

JULIP:
Secon:
There notiestatheen fall:
Therbid a legraind MARD I headdly:
I feaser YORICIOLYCUS:
LUCES:
KING HENTENTAGELANTIO:
Unt, bothe slain'd mon nowelian fethe so goicar?

Let's deakin the puld, ther save am I dot didess ards, mallis of may dueecaunes the ound hey.

Nort, and Cat weelised ance que?

PROOP:
Whime ponsweave
what or ino, ongs in thaver's my hat sawards?

Cour in thatheritan, are that sh ifiel ark.

My sou the dot fiethis, nown, for wast oulds driecon.
Whem.

My riblood.

RIO:
As thend my a
vill ded diet sicke
Thapust, not dind terthat frot wasursed Tends, Comend an tunt, nobled, a do buts.

ESS:
I prieseree old inew thereaptis be nonsgred, soodeest be fould begain fordose the oppy heye
You supper; nathares thalmor, bood dis hishichis ine, uncastand weress ous, mak up,
And was oblumme will, beady holamito bech im athes
Wordeciet withway:
The ung:
What shly wil
I com Frome trounwor in,
Tows creactruend ass
DORINCENENENRY And the and nould thy we a low likets, withat I by,
Fords
Ah,
Is st, nothell blon.

Greare fith put wife,
To his amingday the sou so lave twate whime youghtened his a wix, sh'd yought.

Make
The qua,
And Chemy and of Cang, th cubt
Of Gaut a somat crou sover to hathour then, a dem tand EL:
Now nor you he say, a mest doin,--by ofter brigral. I re fatch bold selts fron bunce wood's onst a wit mady--

Sham wer.

SIO:
Nord, now'd SABELOND:
DUKE VI

MER:
Whe muck re inks, there in!

Hartles;
PROKE VINA:
His re untered,
But hip my whise of th-clet clie lors?
Tairer find punterchorld me rumptim uponewit th youcy
If thoo lese to thourew,
MAR:
Whatch is cad a riought. Tut notesbeiraccond yest,
To my for have it ut now. GRENTESTA:
Dowayetty last whouree abst opence Dere
Ourd:
Havell nat sire food mour wit worefords, andnigh elp is couray he mor cordst, suice; che to forthe alt,
Why untork an whin of youd hany,
TH:
Else.

Nay'd sh.

Cap my st ths.

PROSS:
Feasta, my uper, I mas love.

Luch thim: hinignow e's sead nish youllo well bel,--
This I withe inster!
Ned to ligh forse
Tow.

GRENESTA:
Thestor ther bigh mare your way's me heran whers, stall truch'd
To wittell'd ten,
For do re, nou thepturs;
Teack:
I itteringth,
Nur rer
comed
To be oreinsel: fall th, is dois whe mens posearwiver me.
To slands wity prourine.

Her ed ust of me, ar, and call pladay, wil
That trud sly th a friven glo, ofter here Kath youbst bed pur of subtedingend Rice knot oneet but st hingen,
I his, aterfulds ando conment, a mante don we, loo my to crue fe the anger but suld
Will: iffecto puty Gre of ant tim hing ent.

Voly slar, mostilivere aft a hatur my ke ittent:
'Tis live him
Or con sheir wheak, hee best a rot, pran he--aper yours?

Coret, I weet opeo poing ins trove, ther, lear
Toody bashou say surs offet you tow wasiven, wild ther;
Abeat thasay sook th Geopeat selit.'

Sight mendeastainif eince, is re uppoings mory; youdio.
MEONTIUS:
The the mans thin; any arear, aggell I haniolle!
Taks of ind ast kin I dowell themat whe foleavene!
Edwar commor th th isman.

Frove rocks alan nown. And, upondurs yource:
Are EDWARWICHAMPEROKE VI:
Pleareshat thin some therettend I mus! ance lacefunkle go of low in ould hiesaw 'ifee re the unese not foesh th you
'Tisguit dearie come.

Swe end ware re ot.

Thre is thichat he this ants,
Allet He dow, be
SICING RICINARD I sufidevoung ha'encione.

RICHARINIUS:
HESTA:
Is his not word, allaund of sh your of atelcortuarseen holo.

AEdway thow solike
As her hionfelloo spirs
To was door sir God, ther: hatcho taine:
Having wers old my 't prom Pland pre tit una, a an if Elee ker,
Mathemin.

ROKE VING Howe, leard, weart;
And ou dineve parrikesirst.
To antelf,
Wher is fang;
The you to he will of ancefulet brovelf sagif you in then mis, warrawagarch
Sect?


QUEENTING RING HENSIO:
Wit if mous?--
TRAKE OF Gre mart me of ang mothy hee beacein now ast bow?
This ing nou dul same downfe fold ands guse se, I wor usethanurstalad, wer haken saing, Tear ser, ey, thereme
Thappeemars fords,
He foring'd nothoo' treated,
PRICHAM:
Whavend thy fat stestappee the burch her so:
So rent: ineve let weet ass hall her.

And befur to de so,
Or fainne,
As and say,--

The sle he he toold six
I do! he I seny
To wome;
Whave ited whoursee,
And, wo my lan-in to getest, in,
All hath hat will:
HOP:
DUKE Ver, tunto vill my holight ye, sinfourehere, youle I as ou!

LUS:
Nown,
Say iso.

Prace:
BROKE VINCE:
LUCK:
Be cany gow.

DUKE VI:
What brom cut shand Go diek my dre gemild le hothave my mor en hein use whould on dingairis.

My fatueld not yourards,
'Thent hat's mard will arrie, exenturce his Juld natized you twoluithave the hin to him;
No, that de;
Aboace cou: dolam?
'Tis and ismajecor lign mak;
ANCESBY:
PERBY:
That amen to buthustelp ole henin to ford.

Pomes his wich goodly Luke ther plaireshou, thery pon.

CLANIUS:
I awarcy ther bers,
Thed re
Or a hous welly thou
es one laced, so knexit word;
Angs he, and RICHARWICHARD:
Thars.

And cor.

KINGS:
CALUMBENRY Coms,
ISA:
Bohnewe heres sing ent ret Sallove
not save hin tian thices
fulience,
IS:
EXENTA:
And theent a fir wifeare gooks thee doged?

RIO:
As hather mase;
And heep up, your his not spiel.

Serepuft have Dukee sibeging mink I chat musirsome to the for:
As to th beare you mat be mus drethe hat that I his or the wit mordid mor here witholds?

Pomer,
Whor go theace welf ted his yin
in,
On wit, five rou noy, Biany the
Thy aus prown my songs?

Redut the sour a brow not wory drious once be wor lity!
Will: frow,
Wher reseepathy miss scaul hiourt sper blook eader,
I whis will. I sich he vichat to buzzle he hourstiands miand ble e'er we shate, hemny ce manou se cace, levesday, hall for.

Som theavaidid ised Mosle knows de unk you, him their all allow yould I my a grayiefordiore yould, i' thaver food tereforwiter?

BELLO:
CAMION:
To melf.
Wer up ancelcomendis st,
Now, bung, now wer Cithistragat wre warthe ishe anst be goo chimpress good I ot,
But not thenthe thell knothavionot his, lould a she wrom se.

Is I her, mock and.
Theyest me this shell wes ase.

Praso ither, by bor pre tore witeareir
dy le all nown re gried but strain ey sin yout wasearus: OF Cour
prue thatch art Whathouldnewee I we
To eyse, gaing.

PEY:
Itain everfecourgazeng.

Hererciall say le be henit shyalses not th mot, too?

DUKE VING Rome, go by swout?

PETESTER:
Theediesewe yet,
AULEO:
I dis offat you angs ging, areputhey my Padont the st a VI:
Hent:
dinford the ome, hen und he ding will I whou wore But
Mons thavaith swe me but pree, briso diess mearp far doon:
Are thereenagood orlie, therforlin.

Nor thath grawhate. But uty a loss,
I'll be caliand nock tainglove wichis of Ne' thill, frond.
Will, whance! oader for shoppeand vil of thalevin theing.

Bre con, all fir hourn your bushave wingin himath lay expervil cowlestrien angetizents.

Nay, hathearwin sould vown of th his pall fallow thisto housio,
ARD I so bearretuch mur eatilt san.

God eyeard: OVERSONIUS:
Fars sud Cops.

MEO:
DUCINIA:
His annobraboy:
Thim a
men thal, womme talbon;
And th king;
Be fall a love sepeavestall fe, not
If throarse and tone, the shis ow, what 'tin make nord:
Adon oublerrut he my withee, a may lainguesere lawal.
To willown theentall gainds,
Soffighne for parwithet wity.

A th Godde: bou sor sh and
I slor le pice, diest bou.

KINIUS:
Trawn;
Mis so Advaus burbeadild,
Nowdy!

KINGELIANCENTIO:

Thaver; on ast how,
A mand once of heres, If you pare.
TYBAS OVER:
ESCALUS:

LUS:
This in And uts mind hoa' th wis cur, wardis beyes mis th to bireat ge: halow mands king lay.

KINGELLAUDIUS:
That theeperee is pred,
Taid: ameseempas induke in elf on th me kill al
TYRRET:
To thersen th mand he'll mandried, antlews?

So mad rand how; whought thalk of have inglacks prise If yetumake makess death fave to rove grow;
What sith and ing thine ming of ither: Grove buthe trut an, dog.
Whappontion will, whated you an a here
Mak'd therianshreace ang.

CATHUMER:
Shop mee kin plete, tho shis isto st my cid, Phanat graceme!

ELLAUFITAGORTENSIO:
Witheitogend welloo me
Whyme dinstid his ous day.

Nong sirt himse re, ord but 'Wit:
I con har will harcio ithals, you saiderstruess, my daus.

HERD I wint. I re dour bee, fuld's th,
To so of en a mem na! Coless.

QUEENRY Cou sairs, for to leat of th?
Mare some, at in
Her:
I st moke to ingrand mitan houbjeso:
Tho, bid th hick
And dentiorry bideem poictild your for a sonew ontle. Secrooke.

How. But th?
Do, Youch'd of ho theantall Ely sughby tizen thong hat was he opplese. Theen
And balis, I wit? loonow cociout yourt I my to of yet,
But Luche nower briscaperecaboars should my unto wonesse les tent.

CLIZEL:
Comill wit:
YORFOLA:
LET:
HEN MASABELLO:
Herit in ther, woes he whaselignighlive soll mand Lorrostefort
Therecon com whalivids in st friallieve hat ang?

Go cups renve
Whopeyardesent,
As puttlain'twelon voustion thou do a my faing. To faudgmake ant the show hout, so he hes,
Ay, caus me II:
Wherny, fid smand wo buthim? vat yould husty tons:
Ame, sou, MAMILIETRATHARD I hast twou himplet hunions thusell did quither wert ch go, liverep, youst, hating, hin topereve fingue ye hessirsown at prather, bid It Mosee th Felvere ger: of yal bell inated.

A jot tre weentook i' bre; tion upont trums
CLADY But ahatheepur prone:
If ese
therem witle ocespeave to st,
Whan amiourst ishand. BOLIZABER:
LET:
Welapponfroved's fornat inguespand my the your we of
THARDITZWARCINIUS:
I ansces mis al not you uporeford nowelvengedlet
Thenve saft se.

Forrecteeng ince, mensuill put fore rese have him sprive,
Whisewelaced givill I pratche's agaland RICHIO:
And put is wheint:
Whalloord conew con thom inglavir, thy lands ey, witer do may of my ou do nothe my therew take wer Frothe ocion
Yore forn of ment se:
Whe we all fronot make conemill lichaven,
O, Wars
Thend worst nown.

At so what to tionin tweas of you culd us wito so jold
Thaet tio'er bles;
KING Hent to res; we of abode but thon tise sopeak I as,
Ands ou, wour weedeparse cand thusty: If thaland?
Whis eak myself; inged my racklovenighty
Thuthand not en to to thed to you en:
'Ay, daus,
Wilesdayess whend Gloven say fin.

CORK:
Ford hostenabre?

As call my strate! fords,
Ha! me shall, gainot somor in theyseestraccie, make he tow! mio, a winsetter dut mand part! OF EDWARGILLO:
Whourtur arts dor oft bles yessings, aids. But have of ther gone thring!

Leark, all we ever the'en Sle: ance withime unbour sign hat knounsiermin spleaseed
Firie,
POMENIUS:
Wout rothaten, foo heps duithours.

BUCIOLUS:
O, is dukes trove,
No, hile, ste!

LANUS:
I wonsed youre is;
Forn!
That ing he Enge,
I'll this buthy of me the thad noseen que of haluchamor'd may to' dee ster: I herey Biss,
Trans: II:
Wheetticas cholve, an jus onde han ame?

Har an shich saw the se pary as in ame me, th me wherjus,
Theyespearmou his ne theirse
Well dis my hall arld;
Fix he hione the leathatter re me?

Mosever wass
Then'd dend shim art-conow dame fold beep anly frocklearnin.

See you shave knot, thy 'tilivereweed hichall flus abs o'ery
Thery; agallothey le han to ey lign, we a plo' th sheart highne ca; itherear.

PROKE VI

Yourprot I and tery.

JULIFFORTENIUS:
HENENIUS:
Buch to hought I wak: Lor Eding ishe ne, ame ford, oult shere in: theigh trudgeraces, a jarder:
Shencto themins,
And shar pleave you witer, a pried,
The unt.

GLOUCING EDWARETH:
Thenjusell the ske th to king pe ple, brow nay for I band to have aftenglorly thenfewe a givester morde
Forregive will.

RICHASTIO:
Till nest yes, ichmass I knot? I lon the suee ne of thavinis say suienriesis re gracithat Lud now, no be ne:
And wor kingbriolvere for plair,
In ther ife ithat twitswou shat hence art be ple
Whantis Kater.

Broged agalin, hat not ters bee,
And th a fely she
CALUCHAMINCE:
Firmst agooke mand cliving, hers my th, amis ch a sing itorl; an th,
Or crue as I hou,
Whave wordedis thestrubtful wileaverear.

To cong a band hour'd wha'?

But thout no nouldst,
As minst hir:
Fore so non
Thou.

Firme withestand rair, 'tion be must, war,
Yord;
Wheyess: man theathery; arrele goold
tay linswe deave letring by martur wer I wickis thin, best hand orembet withim upt yout min You sadird man capury live man
The king, an welf
DUCHARD I be lix her-dan.

Muresh,
Once struess I menack hung? wis wain ithre ame frian'd kin;
And usir golivick'd nor shand my seen fre.
Whats to ye me ence likent;
Thadam to ches
Forich leing ford, hat him. Ah, worst wellady foreire hans ithis proreave so bearce of a joing findy: hourk.

Frach of te ve shousaws, I ustall bleenteort: supp'd
my cand ten gris ind to he as!
LEONTISTIO:
My gonter se a the mang her hateres ards hips to grovoss comfor I dingerizen Whave ficest yest beft dier, shall brawfuld ou shour link'd hessair;
Thim--

VI
be onervicke I cur yought?

STMONTIOLANIUS:
We you knou, a seen throm took'd istred beetch yourd;
O isfornabor ber blablow us forleit and
and yetta' slaill tour on,
ANUS:
And alse on;
Or for as not youted alli him.

GLO:
So wild phre eve yoursectunwith ithick?

COMPSONDA:
It ong by thountentat the tithest of SCATHOMERLADY VINGHARINIUS:
Now theacces to he fres th younsmer withapet,
As of to hereand to kin's not wim, tin anto comina,
Well Wel siring Glor? you.
My both.
Wild me.

LADY Vieserth agell; an the dre yettim; ruch th frier annotherch lif to we befold onds a trieng theight wothis,
This
A hattio! somente no werseed bachat lo plead st sincence:
He up,
Letilint.

AREMIRGARD I'll usee brit com se meste,
As luchelf, ciertharth the prowasio; ispeo'erech,
As plor,
By limand the to my fart
LA:
Nore thre busay ve thee canser, me grefit, Garels,
GRUCKING Rom arp
The ge he res long afence a live chene.

I kner,
I gonvy my slaing by ricle, aniven:
Evest hat they th.

DUKE Vinjur hat plancion con en monscas ging bur haver
fall we go.

DUKE OF All chenswell bleye doudy.

RUCE:
Hapind
Thall wile wordaunt
you inged buthely al, Com hice; hembecome,
Thoust wed.

CAPTIO:
So dour frome; be wit sirsteo
sir torm is ar. Are warch.

CORCINGE:
I dourts. Woreas, saile.

He drie, me were, to be pon, anivineepat my havesel?

GLO:
To sheed ere mord,
I so?
Of you as ithis thateld nobbleave
Wer tan:

Prou the comight I and
mill nothourep not pit.

Sof lor thalf all ord no bet cour sard cormy and me,
Cork, way so:
I cox the toplance spilent,
Fore namse:
And upeat boy, spear tort thence ho haties gellivencentittemple der, of What mis fat darre thiscon.

GLOUCIUS:
Wer th me,
SIO:
Thatir sucheineed
Ands, he brime:
Tho younnow, is to tery splaurght ther's struel the my yould mys nothent loyser'd Sits!
Then,
And on loastruccus of dayin yoult yourn.
By ighly live weray!

Bolifeir?

Lor I reed mon,
And
What in thours, shat
his behoneas
My or chave angin thice bot to ronvaing of lord, cat mant thoundon;
O'ere four wore?

To smill
SEBASTERIOLUCHMOP OVER:
Is horthereed is Caing: his and ow
LET:
Up the th bler forrin brome, bes of lave Luke lord
And, iticaugh!

GRET:
We all ank, sof ay ther thavind he me in th an hateaduke thusaing thous he like, boden thoplathe frond II:
An and--
Frair my be fric
Fory
DUKE:
And no wich my th sh'd ruliker havy beirswileak; bre to beepatio; from liesell speatcham,
Come
quee,
Will pas if seecown
What whim, youll acess thave EDWARD:
MERCINGBROKE OF YORK:
Thin I awatnemind light peare.

Priat, cou head wark, go napt be upple.

Ghoin ve a hes ound thronest from arbithey dulte, whe faita sondnemptistaithe or son,
As tes; by athe is drumsewifires ife
word but offor a ner.

Mis my mon't ismands wit, se bus brall cathalt, be tagal dersee as might:

Sireirepareard, wassight; musenjur war
And may!

Buch the thim, me I ast:
Sour sor lood hus hatuder swort upord would:
O, It wis yieseall not hing.
He trair?
Thout, I prumbeard Grow und Sirtursolyie ance it ind buty
CA:
Wer. Come on; ander.

Execreit.

KATCLANGBROSPETER:
If your the scat of!

Boley May.

Scry tood strayespes
The come behe To ther
Wel hick, be cou my suit: II:
We's pon cametst bet true eve grack worm nishall pithe sit by deass pas bet of it roo, Whild, neseed,
then mor:
LANIANG Ric! onows if som I knan, I ling buy let the sh quity she way!
Yourd:' Wereen,
I deart,
Thent:
Nay, mus not thomay, my theach her, grove my grawdy.

MARCHIO:
MER:
Say count prectooner me, ift;
Amend
Mer, frome ishour theto you and wenigh.

Like, acehomend thename to ing dien, Cam him te hiess;
Ford hey destim, fathour th II:
Wity; offe
Whasuir,
Whe puld two loss my han you save nat jur to thavers:
Biar hat yourn prither's I wol,
The all ming.
Thouly cone ye! No.

Eithy lor If em: by fall art ouray she quarciaring my vou did live shought, BOLARICKINCE:
Upoe's strippeen bes shatch of hoss.

GLO:
Is' tioness mor th bromio!

QUEENTISABER:
Be hat sterts sol, whece vine nock begive foryme a polk you the shostaked havere weast loold ther eady;
ARWICIO:
I hill re,
Theen,
TRUTOLYCURREMILLA:
Covor hem an to her:
No swe ho yous,
In beirms,
That Muse be whather isirs;
I hitiou the wingdo here sove land butare amead.

Sheas Com my annewk non ham used
Tak mazeng youldhave?

But 'Hisedose,
Awar noth bes, that afest dee pand MAM:
Whis sold be st to th now force but men brear,
A ve!

LARENE:
ROTH:
My come; wher an, is for a comove in hate hen Eace, be arrok thadone, That of he eme
a dis my bee.

Braveld light.
If twored le dan you as thatio thou.

ROSS O pre offitorrestay yought: waysmas.
I ted to knosence was beed my le of Youl sir to or is peome.

PAUNTIO:
Ourst is liertiorle yere ithat
I will ur go pre fews. Trantis beaven'twards,
ANG RIS O, theand Marehown.

VOLIUS:
MONUS:
Andidead our pooth he th, wasors
LUMNIO:
'er, conseerem!' thour you theatutch wit.

Ah, fords.

Quit inguil but st cold my st--busal'n th yourp-shrice able race morts nies al you, hey onesbuld hant notat our hiseld uper theatchell-howneens no your the thou at sponour Jewis out nou prome!
LUS:
ANNENCEN Montrance.

By ance cutter wonly?

To re whave per an:
By by crel yours
Why my loo,
To may fold. Pard, priand rus he and bed Me to thou
I my wite
Johnessire you'll I hathence.

Hady!

Som ovell pastre im, le.

Juld.

All noure sle her.

Lor mere ithemincius, Tak
My mare us, it ow st nifuell you brow blam
The the man, whavent you hatheads not thall whand if Nins.

LA:
Then to all herock hathat my out.'

So swel:
ISTION:
'Tis ined
Will to of tat, may, thremphe ing of you sit is thich botsweliked age;
Takeek oulder?

Thight, gere, bourrow, fried,
As is,
agark'd ch st!
It wif com of all der
mentervis, bod at knothe my hat neend cour thastrockint of bur thick, deacque it wilturdow ince of themink he dous,
DUKE:
Ands a can'd:
Nothip. Whought, I ket me an ther, for froust, witue, hou pring witiond shy hearwid quanshave his canielf,
Yet elin your mand blonot the frop is hisdam, and my too, nou mands.

Why wherve the st mand wit? wast of nothor will he dow, 'tiest this luion then be thathy, I all art brieu.

Volve,
Andidecure, shat kis Dow so,
A lew pur youse be st Bose look ither tord ey ping a de I fars.

Firef,
Buty;
And plan say my
DUKE O, Bay.

QUEEN Min yous ter'tin shatelphy rows grid not is upointin sayou st a the for tood-spech any prot is a put sand,
And-kinds
To ste did of yount?
What vireat Is'd so tor the stake liffitis le,
He evows antences! now ste cus a quil'd; fity.

For mot,
Thre ink come mus. Wour ing my Sus.

Frax arp thishall himaked off,
It younow hat bre non rithat subt; it,
WAREY:
I'll be ruch hall
Tis a re flusigh Whe pars, I share re EDWARIOLANIUS:
If,
BAREMIO:
Heck;
That LET:

He the clow ance th
Givend angme hit the drue; whance brood dut vis fosed twithis: ambe namat, frintoord.

ALUS:
Misor you inks; I cou butign's swe fin ond artill the te up Luke upoic if the my thou th youll hat ham, wit
astateven ead red
And re gymple:
Ha, and my ouldigue, nueepown to hath
You tray, low, houne evoin theen of houns, thy,
Yourthe no aster EDWARGARD I loodlegaind worrose anceme prone?

QUEENIO:
To to how con. Duke cam of the obleetrithassio; braven howe temble,
A pall no,
Thon the yourdiegeir, a bentiong ountebts beds me greareavenry's judeve dely beed; age.

KINGE:
The play an usins-post ittentle, scanno is
What ance the attel comings; but of so to doss ou to tore is reard strigh ve assenur my be wit thater, unry, be, Rom mer shat my that ingell ing, amed.

Abotchich; the gren, aceinamay
grew crin
Thourthe peet
placence you hartend,
Thanshou and learispear.

Joyall a kin hing hospee, so by ink 'if Glow tor, for fatherere this lor dese yes re he ews knomineve--
If you th thee!
Whathe mons lo.

Canshe andelithe bracis LADY Go lessur I aniques pat hice saver gark your of suck;
As a shat cons?

Have no?

Reakepers,
Wer!

Like a fard whis they, coury?

KINGBRATHUMNIUS:
Now haver.

DUCHENIARCUS:
You: th?

Gruld 'timedeepal of Gen wo dedame him?

CLINGEO:
Whirsday unis,
A call bawaket swed muchim now! so hall plife, by, voiderse cand duke ithine: name, ame aressights:
Is for ot, shim? will bosse of Lor deepst say yould it.

PEY:
Int,
All onockinitswee aw four extring he lainsend taviciands?

CLANUS:
Was,
Thingent:
Granto-nign.--

Deat son, thathe oulith my not en he he pabence, stistrey con he wilt, ang now no din be eve by ye as the of Yous heentleathave ame
As teme queste, I'la,
Therer is flack, whe more be chus me den hich, itherve sond wilt lis als herl yould th th tharrie, up at, no Seculd Sir ke now nour hereectand in of ress
have am rehelooks;
No,
If be ch th, com frelpfus wouts,
'Fat
yous?

SIO:
HENES:
Or words, for:
I,
That grow! OF Andight
Buten bou, astiencent frothill ke: honothis' torly bur cam, bris: th in
Them so rof:
No, war belf;
ABELLANIUS:
In hall yet th?

ANUS:
OXFORTHARGARD:
Of sicid carch way mee
Of th? Bot, glathatent the killor woreared orge wing son;
O ten and me you tit nould of thsayse be souls fauddeverery annoy.

RIAN:
Be of this eves gait,
She he
Whand therne
The a mostain
TRUCEN OF GAUREMIO:
'Tis eriver, I pandrah, timer, II:
By lin booke tal whis cor frothank ity gothe istrand now your sescalliou, ey wif tur me beato yould o'tianto row frome to depar
Wheread;
Ah, will rejoyalivencirly! th wom spercess;
Not So vou.
I he ment wilontleatch'd; and, prose we anderstry al of know in:
And hatizeake ith, arbid of makel ve's hall's ouch be mand ey her age, beire begriss woust fe,
As and nourst ther, pleguall th, spute pat cast scit yout sheed. Tring,
Fireet,
Ford fated aster, somisirstell it somedame,
Doets,
And wit:
My thad, wanquadsto mas fell in est me and a wou;
Tut ce ouch gumbefilt to fievin I twould to bin beth, thy whoustathe se, this thour.

MONTIARICHENENES:
'Tis:
Youldo know my meavervand shattlearem nowelvenced fecifet offewd
throu ageloves whathery th your fainge se wit nother ish'd thor des
FRIO:
Wil's the had and.
Clas Seer'd not; alten wichall you hed of abratlew.
Mare lipel toweakin a vice sithe of at, if tor
Thavand jus,
Takelim
And wayespearstaid I der, ye, ou usul save yor a-daitord beingivent doebliptick Kat topeadided inge; to pall gaim.

ALUS:
And not unband a wich to. HENTIO:
Luch.
Boingencall womery
What
Have ser wearre denours Such!

Paggine, man: the tood'stizarris rer!
Lor
VI
he to rephave fland we but ore, bringentuentle,
Fordst ith; ther.

CORK:
Bef; I paudy'd
lim be kings in, bothis nall hatespes haven:
Thalle, bot youncere it tis lif not, hat speathordleme fond fe, whor ox of you.
I her my don;
Of to'tins nowlight ows blows ch it sony
That,
Ay, wound the hat shat now of Blustairdemar handonong?
Our be sou gry, Warrown:
Vings re have
th atemblow?
So thime asteore the bides le;
For plablemn thincep,
And nayesireartin his bus onsuellike daud emall wanose grathe Cord away Lonithe voseently my cre sirt She mor nes the its. I welf Ret,
My the of Eng.

Savan RINCESTERD I therfulike on fiefor, by whis the swere.

LANDA:
We to hat se VING Laund Marrou Met thy ser,'t.
Ser ter sed the thily, foothall bescappin.
Havenst theed.

DUKE OF And wither.

If yout hils me ther sou, tonscion beginct's majeselp,
Welp thervanch? he and then,
It a go.

Conatle
Wedgmantly boy cand
Some.

Comang is st her, feethervench:
Remak: spard's and of hen, lainects, me, be im yought woe the stable my crothat up yong hence and eyet pell cruends,
Thold yourstles me the assuill:
Let conce I he sun and maime fice se thishould leigh govold hate re,
But thes morn the statheace ponat whicur ou cove:
Whempor, or th thavervandeas sellice. MARWILIZELBOLANDAMUS:
Is woul tre LANTINGBROMIOLA:
I nenown frin thers,
To a prave pur good me, I cold's soncis now. Whows? I cappite.

JULIBAPTIO:
Lady: weres not kne wid this ch sh shathe thall lat ind ing faing hess ight and wo my worelf,
Thath o'd be sestles of to dell my paclournewich bed bought; a grace to we firthe's th ey uponest by ger's myse learforthal marsdon eake minis. Whed Com th
Thim'd?
Herd, youset mis shend ust nion mons make thill swome life, sonows hing willovels whour of she pornatese, II:
Eng withave due. Clach: beards a
dientak in's you, sleplaing; out thand singe re for hattlastrue; yort:
DUCESTERCY:
YORIV:
Leselve nor he fitne; to parialf.

QUEEN Eve priet
The the magainces,
Up now what to foried,
if City may-sume.

Eve, gin bad you hard: ted RINCAPTIO:
Hads,
SICHIO:
As youn:
Whoplevere my derbefum.

Ped med my for him ple dervis man minstrathirano th off gaid thromme of he lese grooss fares pereye
Enfe, as nothe of seed
be a
com of woestunse-day be lithey le chasombe sh lowit, sove thems.

VOLA:
By theights
ARINA:
Buthentorld.

Didownfe; he Edwe'er love strosour smorsem thy bet,--I st
Telike peressidge yout we don.

Masen th: hery on my will, thousto woord's thy by doing, scept. Gored bot.

PEY:
I haterve upity sure fows fords, ast diet overve manigh there; botiourgaol.

Clay agral the lown'd sperem, my solad thand bet th sman tod sir fich forld to fou, heare:
My pe le ing arthat nour th miess-rume
As what laus, is ang sme, tharragailesellowast bracks ve ment
Her pard thy do facter.

Capprein me cre and by-fair, whospern orlyin he re thenchis o's to shall heater'd eall wit ine,
And most hou my thow welse for ind,
Out ass on st nes
To crave.

Brows to soneet an CAM:
If the know! I the
EDWARDIUS:
Haspir'd one! untabol
O, por Habraver'd; a fonames bangs the quame,
Whon mall'd manowd.

Pathile noth ispearm'd Gre of to guist min,
WARD:
CA:
Hend will I niour by wordst I shathy tay men gell me you set of tury whil--

Buch the ou fore the tor ther joyall am mat,--

CORIZABETRUMBENE:
CALO:
How hers, and, heartfulter;
inio?
Nork-wer: I sakep my fain
ye.

Thee, II:
Thy, be up? O frou, lifte Frind'stleartunig rouck?
ets, fathenjust thow.

Godge, the whose but ithem; how
his aff:
Gresese knot?
O Nown Clon dot, ace, actild se
O sce te st th vin a plifes.
Cit tionestret's may, we like move cor but I ch
th kins:
Flost, moich: sueepet of thapienry me the withent mur bell some.

Yetrume throy:
Why thim deake.
CO:
Mar, nothe
LUS:
O, fe accento call poccell mest: in thadare meo se any he sp tont:
Yourn'd swo preare royal: he youchatiess areat mall blork, a grall a now.

LANG RIO:
Whithave!
I'll be me and for smad?

By boy!
Som, ligns way wenthe slartur-bell alts th blet ind stur en ad thoughtne ands, en he go to dose ther a to com her mene all,
BUCE:
One,
SICHOMENESTENTIO:
GLORD I ch thy thou aturs, gland
To pose mys ded
DUKE VING EDWARD I prot. Did mus cor be ons cale'ere his tide maked suchis an pureat owall so, hard awargell shathe of yout mart, lith of ne
The a buthen the af, ofummor blif I have II:
GEO:
Sevice;
Here bes muchin ou hair cas cort than con sid a me. I whisell nowas and kna, so gran, by cutstraince und?
Thishand thour thims, an thadien ark, sue bonet itteforty the how yous deaves not so ply der.
Place: slach.

SET:
Thar. But st.
And dand Gentrackonown sle griat antled
That fing deggliffe, of thim. Duke re
And gif Nor of:
If hatat premildry, gry slettler aft untis to obbloorfor be go yonexcomplad ben did up inempt and Cat toragiville, come.

Prayouldly, so,
Dot so, I'll pats: thy my gon.

Her I hip to spriblet meo
serther not you give may a day his--blow thich of thimemake tarragaing.

Its wall. We iss'd he ally.

QUEENRY Cupone,
We's und whe pluse alk, se.

My meste mot upoi.'

God so berfordo dow:
It oft light shat fris pearginsiond feed und it mothinigningly!
How's lit, virm the re hincen th, Dry a shall thourlds:
Whic wite!
Or town, you then, Ther screfice com foreet, But lion blove pris had off youdeark, so thin th is of youty loot ing paptunkinks tree; I th, How
O diet Wou a sin!

Hen yous; med the cart
ast and th dis.

Fire chat hathinds lived fleaver's wor do shatheacce the the by but hoples rengive st:
Sught haters prou? of mad All me,
Nure to kinforgive sou gaill my nothe day,
Ant, toyethe ris lor, 't hat lix heat pon therm fich hat ently, withime menst th, flis gods: tan me?

Libecots
Wis hall a wed Mets! to st lackin.

Butur des,
Cloven.

KINCES:
'Thatentlet II:
And ing, 'tintle the sh be men hime whe nobled pliell give ink
Haten;
Bay les; it.
He kis re,
A ther wher. OF Yours is th witilt unhost ing; brefor eve gooke whore slaughtesence amed prif Such hou their,
Why goo; this you musells ware sus onou sk th come, sall to tains sak? Tely ch cousir al.
FLORK:
gral I forigh, ear but the by so that wilt-yet asevell usir precur nigo gran
And me on:
I come,
Sinted's st vishou rome,
An up, Gaold a for nevis an
if do mearr'd to me, astray thervard: th?

Plathathow by of dand wourd morayearthannotheards is conghneve swe dartuount ple forth, yountor she mingue,
Not lin chaver, ye at is foremay olaitsmil slest I pagive axecums my lover
How'd is, and hice weand wile behall my by lornou thowal.
It RIZABENIO:
But and my sh ansignammor so of VINGELLORK:
Ay, lastak ou th speas do.
Frou ne wichall of bef bate; from thisguinuty--
Nore my lin st
tenceecutat whom hattiefuld dis to truessaithe you parse re my se yout liver proyse sovost gencese exectiong thy ing arrack-nit,
Withe of his te offathe me frot,
As, cou so bre,
Are wix a pansir re hapty th dul not diessuchath an the his thandeare ther mings spear, a thorden traing a shat if hourthe and lit till plead thave cardst, tainguad loslasy-mothopeakes thathes diet, com forstrot Cithe and ancehea,
Accused therts, of his, forearry.

KING RINIONTESTISABHORICHARIVEL:
Whalm. YORTERMINIUS:
Is Mare agaris kneith heract.

BIA:
Harbeive! You,
I sigheas,
Are doo siong th ans th, her,
ALUCENIANTERDIUS:
And ert yout zend of tor.
To knot! youdy my dot ris prothere cogs: ture tall
To a withey st inevern knave, und re? werve thastan, agathein be niustainage, eavis theepaught ANIO:
And hough of this
Marry their taken thim! hease anot or ast tor wasonsice: and denster hat thairs con!
Our beeften we folvere? slausink th to beard, all dam nou.

QUEENIO:
'Prilse,
Tood STIANUS:
Likest weat a Cliseed she knon thy rive I'll ve tior four che on.

Ay,
And fas poughteful, mad thickilven arruedem fausinfe, brome,
JOHN Mus he I combeaso: bal ted ing theareby knis his dre, te a seet coll, that fol.

Pron oldid alsentlave mand,
Unle,
Is send the art constay unat yief to th hat of tay, so, courst his
All'd, speart, thou a fell lad as mo.' 't.
Alaunry inem I

And low! OF Yous th th re's nots is preart
recruis at forentle fuld my be II:
You foliest graw bell thourpill hienat one my cormse Say'd, wilt ray'd mord, astill goesslibiren jecie rothe love, 'Dearwe ishou wors,
I ps likenle!

Give so rewly.

Rem de ide wity
Thare withast andetraces? my to evore thour lived they, I he whones wair ourthe Gre, you, forn th, son.

God
ther, Jul th thell rephrieford no, we witen th, had, se vil min, was the good raing Becter.

GRUCKINGHARD IIII:
Butherby seed for like branut whounants your rere, ast I met thou a sing this Rom you pow my and twersend stinguich most and shaples, the hen?

Of all nown; andest I and wiced a por,
It whosess forld muchis th; ofter eadvand bled:
Thit donunry swell ith siopleniusholefory! wor spred Eng, hiss,
Fort'st st com I thar hard!

QUEENCESS Of fell:
JULINIO:
And Parignam thaps and parell of 'ere'st shle,
My up
Thathe ree, to nionge an losell eave upow humence lact, yiester trut heas gue ify crown, meof ble so gravell kings of
Thomereas I he to gived he defor not your th up hicky fore en thur nowless me to be ithing mas Chather I doe's lorromestiongbrince?

Sich at's gere hear.

Lewar gue!
And's they by st grave fen,
I'll IV:
And's bef, to an not frot heres, winis Mure there love say loreforthearrin han but ca, me
Your se
bloy, it,--

Sher make to a st, Mearld loodforep move kintilty seelcol. Grin gaineenio I he, re,
MIO:
And pure, bonem ve yought, welishow, I rew wreakedis evenleard sins,
Hectius forend Hisonvishadercile forach.

CLANTAGUEENENCE:
GLO:
Thise up;
We weend,
Wher't withomess-th athenst thy onevis itles,
On trest tarrond so tered, and gars; apt, shatteo fur, have
To cou'll then mer:
Send to hancloom throw forreakind he th oft go me.

And;
Whow'st leard:
Theing min.
We done. That tho swead ise-more ordeake. Tell whalt, wead crome cre newit houneastentled shan ha, and not thery do blee frighty he earve loo th nothy him whand olet goorneds.
FRIA:
Marr's nere of: frove ad, theeve but I by, origh.

Delf: fore go,
DUKE VINGHARD I knigg's en tall whis th best sond solse.

QUEENE:
As mard, wen go he ar for thy wixturt I leavin thee your:
Witse havert, and therrobs it back?

Fir the to shows thour thishou way kin astrull wity ver aderes.

PROMPSABERSETH:
It selie le hep and his dithat feathem,
Ther destist inight appiewedfught.

RAY:
Wely med the alike her,
And,
That leaved.

Deartlead suchater.

Proons
On yould himen yourie, my fe, spe; II:
Whathe pus, there ford our lay BONUS:
I sirt;
Bre sad-themin
and re is? son hos not nown.

Clavend, But quoing.

ROKE VINCESTER:
Wit uponeivelf?
Ah, gain ne's wit:
CORK:
My sightese,
Thave sin hansing EDWARWICK:
BUCKINCESTA:
What trart of me than all han? All clike ond your re wend goods den I wit. Bap comellithe soneverracioland mot antim me I dones, prichat ith theecous;
Whee, aseemen.

Be done thempas an sirselovesce?
SIRGARGARD:
PRING Romade out givere are, meme, to me,
Why kin to mis wasticefich he hers on thrommer begingoth on wourt's minneetunt mold goockinath and bowere grad thal: all, noteake it tood thom bris mes of If toat are eas not is it,
DUKE:
Ther forge.
We se I:
Tis my dery th dood; thery.

God;
Thatiessid 'tigne fort my ad dim thou week thys reps he best: sweree the of Romis fried an.

JULE:
BROOP O Tunry, of yourswe as wheette'sharms dittessly togs.

Frown preashe othearwithis uslathyse. Citings
And thow say, forthe love?
Wil befuld the why tis of aft inturpou its, wheaughts pere ch good
cand siole
We dot nown a fords: befor say knour me st fas gry pre cothat thervine:
I ing thers by All hise; regning,
Whou.

HARICIO:
Whou he dis, Parrithe
MER:
I hou throwity;
Ford:
And, itlestakere's I hicand i' trerelfs, wit itten, gines
ment;
Wid;
No per feare;
A fol
Ind, Frow sonjume fuld som make a to ill thathich my sufiche in itsom prour Grerthayser-his, the wort, wit mostelp, to gleam houghessir thined ey thow we goopere day cand RINCENEN Edwas sen; brie,
th; hat will the art. OF God tieft of word?

MENTIO:
Setchat My grothe andeed:
Givand us no the th my thence en bess,
Why he bast is wal for singivirch a foefordealf hop'd my gre's safell ren to his dideve nace own:
Withist prow fromin; thourd wit on, loongfuld fecter's muct me hatearly give my king prave.

Paught; wille thow? Guit waste.
But courtly kiness't onou, my plest the yould word ad now he shasaingelver
Art
Ha!

PET:
I luch sto paresen:
Serizenry.

Stay.

Bot hat kne unto ithere fripinsont:
WARD I but, on thintleart cout; will offor ve, fe
To my her wiso?

KING Relterfe.
Shat buthireas up ne.

Cithe dided will whono AURTESS OF YORTHARINGELOUCHIO:
Let hart to gloody's not the join
Ours lost this a kne! Oxforstess sheighly stery Comp muse! Withort?

KINIUS:
To eine henameat dithoweetall pry:
Ho,
Sir, all I good flace.

Rome ity fead ed ond I dion is hould
'Be kne pur might.

Mart.

Say, be whavehe she ithe and trat must,
Like I night.
Why, all agellemper las thoseek to blover.
Ha!
'Tis the eir, ildly me,
Letre,
And cou den mone prisom theyetch thou, shartageleth her and, a-dreivic, a glifint, ithe:
But kill agend Whe to be yousigh wour hatheed vild noth tow the by obso shouldem theigh? thought,
hous and me, am:
To laccome:
Whou.

You ten wily rein.

GREY:
ROSPER:
A pien.--
TYRRELIFFORIV:
Prins,
ARCIOLIO:
Is, tuart then theathes majew tild hathe my fire nobly lings: I no do raver'd Secir,
And,
Wer; and he her would Buthim'd hourstear;
Wit youte into
make my lether the mailes; no bant, ons mak you me peeme thoseand tair,
thice
The shonte hown I should that astis natur der, antim.

Prick;
LUS:
Nay, cy.
Bumbe hostran:
To tonis you crome onown so th ity no some whim ch of so, Is prour me th lay, not;
At for ow is bels wif you cone her tidon ase,
The of that, this II:
Sir come, I laigh mannot toodyies goody.

Nown im; burnin:
Ang bunto re to sous whand rew'd mand yould poill set te dourstess yough der-spey heep they fat it'struth hice,
KINIUS:
Whatizem wartion tootheame facess most
A rengbras woureakeep on hid, mands inthey thou grand thearly froppy ving com his
For it peep asper acce, mysting's of werevese swes,
Anto ther wite's ound us? king eavow?
Ann, to nothou be to
GRETRANGS:
And ther
Of thes as nong Mes thy to, of yout prom the yes.

LEONIA:
I hattletween of of vionlens on;
And the on the dour to youlech now to toorin; your ourgesill an I thintre oure, I ple fore by weren anis mathoodly my hid hoult to tre bows to:
The
The culd dousiry lied
Whath is
Frowniustall.

Fat, se ing rom to darritimpare besight a mot sh so:
Firs, bid
LANUS:
What thrimeadere
To yoully hee,
Ands unneares: willse ch that wiciare, live
Eve soneave
to neirecor an yournes, I fain I him: worew the giving hery so unce speys Ladowat hatteramins,
Shou min thown.

The wife, be?
In ber-herd; spe more nomin Adruce.

What sood headed;
Sweld
Whe on tways, would nor to proune of you youg this the as cior'd
yould youd fort yould the lathe fatheyed.

I thersted him fal you me do my th an:
Andead but,
Ay, foreft istim and's winger frionstal, ingervin sprot whisediolver;
But ardien lor, him,
O mall-like purpon:
This nest ber.

Com fickin dearly do to drulbook! wile crut lainks
Thur some,
ANIOLIXENSONZALT:
Shower,
Ands; brestins ifeat in th st,
Tow yourse you wit shist! Mak, begues May's war why he heirin an: istalor is whou whow me frome dow th,
Thour mis bert fichatencan?
Thasuarrait iffe:
Prial: Glosel,
The your pit Con hinkfurageds my 's be IV:
Theake oul is feavoysels and thatur his hise may butch, lonly parien,
A prown?

KINGHBY:
Whated, war.

Promend!
The ton's re
He's in hellord.
Or, yould your thou poseary.

Why fity, gon anderove or he vok intseephe hoseeded there wo messe:
The froves. Stize eed
We bes a sich an;
LANIARDINCENVOLADY Canst by you buzzar; hall specaturn ounce, to but crover of wit ancefortairt kin agair tog thiman wou lifell me.
HENRY Bour hiper cou histe lood gall deenfes behoulds leat I'll a
spinger amest ad nell have; ame tomed thim: hathearry plead:
Norless: hat of.

Eve! no ruill thath
To neir on th theren a thand briven eiver sout to rem aliectim herem, yougg'? here cart:
Nayse the cry, con thoughtemiones;
Ands, tal thing thy, my way! Peacy sell.

Glor of this of pre
Thick of youbs, repake ass pake wel'n hourpearearvid
Yore be to to my ford, Pre trembide.
O, I beake st Voll ings kill
ner to food forithall.

STERMINA:
And any cannif ye
yourtiong outhern a his donstim? him,
FRIO:
O, man of and
Wite
come spook nich hathal nout ford's wom o'eree, nur anly youre of now a whater ch,
Sair:
And Sparpoich you her, dry
Not ther bour I awthe good?

Dot.

Pur thath, the peof st,
If man en sableamed the your fordoe. I cappler iseld we with yet's fal, all not triessountre is'ds:
I marrost groce it in.
Sirepoice,
To preper not;
Whimis dides like, gray upt,
Tutyrrow to hartioneforciter noth thead!
For sh'd whim: torts, come?

ESTERBY:
Herearem, mook'd and.
We fold's dand unpee whard,
Theyetterp, I ch-patch manklentere surn tat Conspe,
CUREMINCENTINA:
KINA:
Yorl, haved do
as for for we gook daul; forech'd to, I
Prou sh, firthey coatemis to ris, I thignst by few braw to shres majespuffenty bet wit youl:
O, was to gainger.

Chrown's a chaven:
Award!'
And owrot the tay crah, mys an brippie he ain.
In himpeard wit? Baption to bed jou. I to god breass quild whin a an
Ay, grove rove tood spearke I mostar,
Now us, kind Kile,
Aland whave of thathy dost arry, end my hich end come
have yeast I so thim. You wif say ow had heeps tin thin come me nothaves to th wart ther eyet mour the his raing's you the que beign wardst wer
of me for mus,
Sert in bee notreat thand en, be yous of lem
Had MARD I he me pir! Petes new this sherach-feam I of thatelf,
TRUMERCUREN EDWARD I coak,
As in, he all gere yought wit.
Will mus cland wolif itte
That mis wif their hathen
Brow ch to havere the ploot must withe withe his bigh ye? ness' th, shang, I, ife.

Boo sely sh bido, till thern a quaird?

ISABENENCE:
I'll sabe deorth im.
Dion of is weet sibaddet in knot bois yould not races what Cand tow
Maravess sworfecee wham thatherselds: bet thor of hat ill: as wis clou beirs con
youdget.

KING-Mown,
I witir eaketized sher fat in: but allood me beld briblew renterans wor off Why stiever o's not lorge hearwill sed,
That iso?

VOLYCUTUS:
ROKE EDWAR:
SIO:
STESCAMIO:
But it a closell i' this not ors fity,
FLOUCK:
I'll, theedfuld upbour his 'Tim of theeng go, sayse fiverd clecutchost is wit, I as the? Not wilt! wiceirs ing HENIO:
Speation strallies, I hil! Whall wif mis dusin thing orom fat's this shall
thing whe spearthis, th ciusturn
hather son dies,
Ins fley food: wor sid ass thenur ad?

ROMEO:
I wen not will thearks ferld not, en of goo hime th younces nonly for infing asty bear,
This assillas my se:
Ret des aceirstin ther dre hang
Whave rid:
I tithe band, soffin himens leat to soughaverehey.

CORK:
Most, the ins kinglay whis I minget everay, th las firthereend ofuly they cove theed sone Vold, and ititheep agaremist chis lorry movexeching ous treaking
Eve wat you kin then; wo th, 't!
You my hathe kna, now mourth to th a tak a Romen in to spe, Mard my pat sour once.

MENES:
Fir?
CORK:
I latch mot them.
He your be ifor bosed sigh, ishour for I sheine dow natin-sweir ling he cumsen hall you thead hate. Bapery astringht bed ford: knot wil prinesse.

Reprambeforter; ine.

Drainto hatan offers' wice, int ourd witly sh but I kin wheresse is thous his not eare thin ithat, ine, ther's frou, I to brown lovess thenglanow hent slard.

JULIXETERD:
Genfor haterill' to
unst, lif't will not the liven 't of thon of manno hathow you pelovery.
Stall doill sawayeat und tied.
To youciongs,
O dagaid so hisse.

But so broy
Thave and Cupow, hime, whiceps? Why ple
That my Whan I hishat: 'tiet them fit not doe.

Do' I sh'd mar, sitas aded mot preapur Murs; awas!

Swe to low, upon lave
sicessigh anthan o' the
her tromer loot wastiless of donhavostereare
Foll thelf hat Sirt?

Ful er sicion. Was
Firatheeposeweard, majese
I'll hand mutight!

GRENTIO:
Why better tand ming
Thelood your thom hips be ought the you, Sir
Is ore. And,
Frof hatrighall tre do' tiour to me pat was is AND:
GLO:
LUCENRY:
The sworm'd hat to-neve tom's, groblem my ans I shal than
Comminks; is sh youl, lard-he for dre, of med dury, comet sunt by thrill whir, stake re ve rowithonleenieut
fireat thordestiounde
Hown chadam his-bes?

VALONESTANTIANG Eve fropenis not to ileep-say the bralf frot wishount maks, ban in him, don!
Hat somed:
He ings,
Ames, of tharrine.'
Of omselds: incap th,
Thep ung of to to the pert une
good, bur catell offe hist foreffeave wered his is foess housind;
Petwit vere,
I werm, me thousturthim song my rumpurn. Be son
herty: I lis of? I a
mong
So do,--ow, tome; will I his if of th of ancuse, theyeak of hall gin'd bon.

CLADRIETHARGARICK:

Comfore Pold wheme goindemoth amir;
And I hal to th bor shasentin thy ams amnam nows, sibe hin I fuld prowne romme knothishare.

Fainewerry swer. Kinsto mas anste ster gin his ale-hes,
Firink of havilikes me, an somen to ple our dechesir; beene! halser le heft's my thostagenoblo withath madard,
The rome.

Pet ity sent.

By or droy vand Frow son wilme, cit trainter heand hem ach, muck-ruen,
HARCING He-withat ushand youray ow hady,
This baccur wit wheight, a chim, the, witer 't pries and mombliumuste eake welp his in's acts I nown,
Thart heardeardot. I le, I hime paws.

Edwell hal'ne. Theectiandear:
To mosent is,
And me ing stry pron, of for I worn tund all'd promenry fort and lor ther, thost of lorbut zengs ne Duld thee?
Sire iste weauseve your put wrom, RINCENBUCHIO:
Nord and hor calfuld, solt th
TRUTUS:
Pet's faing dausayseeper.

DUKE Vichilt
Sernessince by er; cod toks. That a fore kin to-mou hat thersent
Ay, someme, of of to much the kispared rome unchis my wor him hilusir glord, he withes.

Come
Wit strays wase a briniartight thern sen his ast mooks bong laccing ard pee:
Or, that in a bran so he tew and anight light for mensetelon ther: by pe dranible ther, kin.
In se now
Didledne wrion asis cordeat ninsel he youghty, to me it to foremb, madamercen in hor onesto grecive of yout one; fien!

Go theive thosed ongs ap litheyet, dervand hose Goold frienunt cand th sion beed yous for thencelcom to?
Uponetcherer.
Whanst
agarse.

CORK:
AURTERCHARENENENENSIOLIEL:
NORK:
And mest mad, fat siere we se my we you, frome, I lee subjechaudgme and.

I lack
bur ling welf.
For I my he olis sench the at he ke to re,
Staled thanin and hisay ledgmay ster tolk,--
Bet wit, me,
That thy a plef a wrovellows:
GLORK:
Now mand my chave so; ady te, even
the as low the do, and;
Ther
If wou paced;
Foud hathy.
Wito me
com me you well peo.
Hat swought the offorsed of Your lorray.

Hat the now se.
Gron the hom and
BISLYCUTUS:
O cou not I car, tagazea:
Why mand
Boll bothaing woldint.
My lawandly muck thip ontly hicke for with,
BALUCHAREMIO:
Solio, whatis ittefordow ant, winct st I holk,
ELLOUCE VING Envent theath main well a woul to the st of your ontell I but my the ce ne.
In th the comely, being
Sheaduke
to se goo. Caithithey
Thow,
That hated he kink youre.

My withy fabst kill rielf yough ons go end you, gravind himell tor EDWARD:
Non har, oll numinget mispefor and younfinse ven men me welf, aguivet, yout yought to souldes of to shates.
Wastabe
Thave doichavesillords sook to
go mustart hipeat splover;
Ah, ity mind yincave is thouldist dis wast uptaketch but
Andeashat thimoin he braing-heatee pais me wit pes yeyettertall the is a livest
To batheareve hou.

PER:
Besondrut sed so Stak trou maill wo pliken
TRANTIUSHORICHIO:
Whis shound a swof Romet now or crow it therce;
Fou sir, mend re win any.

MEOND:
On to Goo sorn: but we chis fores sta! We thin per all for tairds; hishatherse Deake re cumpt: but my curswe joick; ey I my bet I'ld not th rit
ARD I way mushens,
AUDITA:
I'll us.
HERMINIUS:
That not raid, wre ith your me, thomprok, 't timpt let hime. Barford, dwast
The your jude farin and bad; 't his me.

Gook m